Here you are, sir. Main level, please.
Right. See you on the way back.
Bye.
Bye.
Good morning, sir.
Good morning.
We haven't seen you up here for a long time.
No. Very nice to see you again.
Did you have a pleasant flight, sir?
Yes, very nice, thanks.
I think Mr. Miller of Station
Security is supposed to be meeting me.
May I call him for you?
Would you, please? Here he is!
Hello, Dr. Floyd.
Hello, Miller! How are you?
Sorry I'm late.
That's all right. You look great.
Thank you. It's nice to have you back.
Did you have a good flight?
Very nice indeed.
Well, shall we go through?
Okay.
Will you please use Number 17?
Thank you, Miss Turner.
Thank you.
This way.
Welcome to Voice Print Identification.
When you see the red light go on...
...would you please state in the following order: your destination, your nationality and your full name.
Surname first, Christian name and initial.
Moon. American. Floyd, Heywood R.
Thank you. You are cleared through Voice Print Identification.
Thank you.
Have I got time for breakfast?
I think we can manage that.
How long have I got?
Your flight leaves in an hour and ten minutes.
I've reserved a table for you in the Earthlight Room.
It's been about seven or eight months since you were here last, isn't it?
Let's see. Yeah, about eight months.
I suppose you saw the work on the new section when you came in here?
Yes, coming along great, huh?
Yeah, it's fine.
Oh, wait a minute!
I've got a few calls to make.
I'll meet you in the restaurant.
Will Mr. Travers please contact the Met Office?
Will Mr. Travers please contact the Met Office?
Yes?
How are you, squirt?
All right.
What are you doin'?
Playing.
Where's Mommy?
Gone to shopping.
Well, who's taking care of ya?
Rachel.
May I speak to Rachel, please?
She's gone to the bathroom.
Are you coming to my party tomorrow?
I'm sorry, sweetheart, but I can't.
Why not?
Well, you know, Daddy's traveling.
Very sorry about it, but I just can't!
I'm gonna send you a very nice present, though.
All right.
Anything special that you want?
Yes.
What?
A telephone.
We've got lots of telephones already.
Can't you think of anything else you want for your birthday?
Something very special?
Yes.
What?
A bush baby.
A bush baby? Well, we'll have to see about that.
I want you to tell
Mommy something for me.
Will you remember?
Yes.
Well, tell Mommy that
I telephoned. Okay?
Yes.
And that I'll try to telephone again tomorrow.
Now, will you tell her that?
Yes.
Okay, sweetheart. Now, have a nice birthday tomorrow.
All right.
And have a nice birthday party tomorrow, too, huh?
All right.
Okay, now, take care and be a good girl, won't you?
All right. Bye-bye!
Bye-bye! Happy birthday.
Elena, how nice to see you again.
What a wonderful surprise to meet you here!
You're looking wonderful.
Thank you. You're looking well, too.
This is my good friend,
Dr. Heywood Floyd.
I'd like you to meet Dr. Kalinan.
How do you do?
Dr. Stretyneva.
How do you do?
And this is Dr. Andrei Smyslov.
How do you do? I've heard a lot about you.
Won't you sit down?
Well, we- -
No, no, please.
Well, thank you.
Would you like a drink, Doctor?
No, thank you.
I haven't had breakfast yet.
Someone's meeting me in the restaurant.
I'll just sit with you a few minutes and then I must be off.
Are you quite sure?
I'm quite sure, thank you.
And how's Gregor?
He's fine.
He's been doing some underwater research in the Baltic so...
...I'm afraid we don't get a chance to see very much of each other these days.
When you do see him, give him my regards, huh?
Yes, of course.
Well, where are you all off to? Up or down?
Oh, we're going home.
We have just spent three months calibrating the new antennae at Tchalinko.
And what about you?
I'm just on my way up to Clavius.
Oh, are you?
Dr. Floyd, I hope you don't think
I'm being too inquisitive, but...
...perhaps you can clear up the great big mystery...
...about what is going on up there.
I'm afraid I don't know what you mean.
Oh, it's just that for the past two weeks...
...some extremely odd things have been happening at Clavius.
Oh, really?
Yes, yes.
For one thing, whenever you phone the base all you get is a recording which...
...repeats that the phone lines are temporarily out of order.
Probably having some trouble with their equipment or something like that.
That's what we thought was the explanation at first...
...but it has been going on now for the past ten days.
You have not been able to contact anyone for the past ten days?
That's right.
Oh, I see.
And there's another thing, Heywood.
Two days ago, one of our rocket buses was denied permission...
...for an emergency landing at Clavius.
That does sound odd.
Yes, yes. I'm afraid there's going to be a bit of a row about that.
Denying the men permission to land is a direct violation of the I.A.S. Convention.
Yes, of course. Of course.
Did the crew get back all right?
Yes, fortunately they did.
Well, I'm glad about that.
At the risk of pressing you on a point you seem reticent to discuss...
...may I ask you a straightforward question?
Well, certainly.
Quite frankly, we have had some very reliable intelligence reports that...
...quite a serious epidemic has broken out on Clavius.
Something, apparently, of an unknown origin.
Is this, in fact, what has happened?
I'm sorry, Dr. Smyslov, but...
...I'm really not at liberty to discuss this.
I understand.
But this epidemic could quite easily spread to our base.
We should be given all the facts, Dr. Floyd.
Yes, I know.
As I said, I'm not at liberty to discuss it.
Now, are you sure you won't change your mind about that drink?
No, I'm positive. Now,
I really must be going.
I hope that you and your wife can come to the I.A.C. Conference in June.
We're gonna try. Hope we can make it.
And if you do, you remember to bring that darling little daughter with you!
Well, that will all depend on school vacations and all that sort of thing.
But if we can, we will.
Don't forget you have a standing invitation if you ever get to the States.
No, of course not. Gregor and I will look forward to seeing you.
Well, goodbye, Elena.
It has been a pleasure meeting you all, Dr. Smyslov.
Whatever the reasons for your visit to
Clavius, the very best of luck to you.
Thank you.
Ladies.
Excuse me, Dr. Halvorsen.
I'm through now. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
You're welcome.
Well...
I know you will all want to join with me in welcoming our...
...distinguished friend and colleague...
...from the National Council of
Astronautics, Dr. Heywood Floyd.
Dr. Floyd has come up specially to Calvius to be with us today.
And before the briefing I know he'd like to have a few words with you.
Dr. Floyd?
Thank you, Dr. Halvorsen.
Hi, everybody.
Nice to be back again.
First of all, I bring a personal message from Dr. Howell who...
...has asked me to convey his deepest appreciation to all of you...
...for the many sacrifices you have had to make.
And, of course, his congratulations on your discovery...
...which may well prove to be among the most significant in the history of science.
Now...
...I know there have been some conflicting views held by some of you...
...regarding the need for complete security in this matter.
More specifically, your opposition to the cover story...
...created to give the impression that there is an epidemic at the base.
I understand that beyond it being a matter of principle...
...many of you are troubled by the concern and anxiety...
...this story of an epidemic might cause to your relatives and friends on Earth.
Well, I completely sympathize with your negative views.
I find this cover story personally embarrassing myself.
However, I accept the need for absolute secrecy in this.
And I hope you will, too.
Now, I'm sure you are all aware of the extremely grave potential...
...for cultural shock and social disorientation...
...contained in this present situation...
...if the facts were prematurely and suddenly made public...
...without adequate preparation and conditioning.
Anyway, this is the view of the Council.
The purpose of my visit here is to gather additional facts and opinions...
...on the situation...
...and to prepare a report to the Council...
...recommending when and how...
...the news should eventually be announced.
Now, if any of you would like to give me your views and opinions...
...in private if you like, I will be only too happy to include them in my report.
Well, I think that's about it.
Any questions?
Dr. Floyd, have you any idea how much longer this cover story...
...will have to be maintained?
I don't know, Bill.
I suppose it will be maintained as long as is deemed necessary by the Council.
There must be adequate time for a full study to be made on the situation...
...before any thought can be given to making a public announcement.
Oh, yes, as some of you already know, the Council has requested...
...that formal security oaths are to be obtained in writing...
...from everyone who has any knowledge of this event.
Are there any more questions?
I'm sure we all want to cooperate with Dr. Floyd as fully as possible...
...and as there seems to be no more questions...
...I think we ought to get on with the briefing.
Thank you, Dr. Floyd.
Thank you.
Anybody hungry?
What we've got?
You name it.
What's this? Chicken?
Something like that.
Tastes the same, anyway.
Any ham?
Ham, ham, ham...
Looks pretty good.
They're getting better at it all the time.
That was an excellent speech you gave us, Heywood.
It certainly was.
I'm sure it beefed up morale a hell of a lot.
Thanks, Ralph.
I want to say to both of you that
I think you've done a wonderful job.
I appreciate the way you've handled this thing.
Well, the way we look at it, it's our job to do this thing the way you want it done.
And we're only too happy to be able to oblige.
Have you seen these yet?
Take a look at them.
Here's what started the whole thing.
Oh, yes.
When we first found it, we thought it might be an outcrop of magnetic rock...
...but all the geological evidence was against it.
And not even a big nickel iron meteorite could produce a field as intense as this.
So, we decided to have a look.
We thought it might be the upper part of some buried structure...
...so we excavated out on all sides.
But, unfortunately, we didn't find anything else.
And what's more, the evidence seems pretty conclusive that...
...it has not been covered up by natural erosion or other forces.
It seems to have been deliberately buried.
Deliberately buried.
How about a little coffee?
Great.
Good idea.
I don't suppose you have any idea what the damn thing is, huh?
I wish to hell we did.
No, the only thing we're sure of is it was buried four million years ago.
Well, I must say, you guys have certainly come up with something.
Good evening.
Three weeks ago, the American spacecraft, Discovery One...
...left on its half-billion mile voyage to Jupiter.
This marked the first manned attempt to reach this distant planet.
Earlier this afternoon, "The World
Tonight" recorded an interview...
...with the crew of Discovery at a distance of80 million miles from Earth.
It took seven minutes for our words to reach the giant spacecraft...
...but this time delay has been edited from this recording.
Our reporter, Martin
Amer, speaks to the crew.
The crew of Discovery One consists of five men...
...and one of the latest generation of the HAL-9000 computers.
Three of the five men were put aboard asleep...
...or to be more precise, in a state of hibernation.
They were Dr. Charles Hunter, Dr.
Jack Kimballand, Dr. Victor Kaminsky.
We spoke with Mission
Commander, Dr. David Bowman...
...and his deputy, Dr. Frank Poole.
Well, good afternoon, gentlemen.
How is everything going?
Marvellous. We have no... we have no complaints.
Well, I'm very glad to hear that and I'm sure that the entire world...
...would join me in wishing you a safe and successful voyage.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Although hibernation has been used on previous space efforts...
...this is the first time that men have been put into hibernation before departure.
Why was this done?
Well, this was done in order to achieve the maximum conservation...
...of our life-support capabilities, basically food and air.
Now, the three hibernating crew members represent the survey team.
And their efforts won't be utilized until we are approaching Jupiter.
Dr. Poole, what's it like while you are in hibernation?
It's exactly like being asleep; you have absolutely no sense of time.
The only difference is you don't dream.
As I understand it, you only breathe once a minute.
Is this true?
That's right.
And your heart beats three times a minute, body temperature is usually down...
...to about three degrees centigrade.
The sixth member of the Discovery crew was not concerned...
...about the problems of hibernation.
For he was the latest result in machine intelligence.
The HAL-9000 computer which can reproduce...
...though some experts still prefer to use the word "mimic"...
...most of the activities of the human brain and with incalculably greater speed...
...and reliability.
We next spoke with the
HAL-9000 computer...
...whom, we learned, one addresses as Hal.
Good afternoon, Hal.
How's everything going?
Good afternoon, Mr. Amer.
Everything's going extremely well.
Hal, you have an enormous responsibility on this mission.
In many ways, perhaps the greatest responsibility...
...of any single mission element.
You are the brain and central nervous system of the ship.
Your responsibilities include watching over the men in hibernation.
Does this ever cause you any lack of confidence?
Let me put it this way, Mr. Amer.
The 9000 Series is the most reliable computer ever made.
No 9000 computer has ever made a mistake or distorted information.
We are all by any practical definition of the words...
...fool proof and incapable of error.
Hal, despite your enormous intellect, are you ever frustrated...
...by your dependence on people to carry out actions?
Not in the slightest bit.
I enjoy working with people.
I have a stimulating relationship with Dr. Poole and Dr. Bowman.
My mission responsibilities range over the entire operation of the ship...
...so lam constantly occupied.
I am putting myself to the fullest possible use...
...which is all, I think, that any conscious entity can ever hope to do.
Dr. Poole, what's it like living for the better part of a year...
...in such close proximity with Hal?
It's pretty close to what you said about him earlier.
He's just like the sixth member of the crew.
You very quickly get adjusted to the idea that he talks. You think of him...
...really as just another person.
In talking to the computer one gets the sense that he is capable...
...of emotional response.
For example, when I asked him about his abilities...
...I sensed a certain pride in his answer about his accuracy and perfection.
Do you believe that Hal has genuine emotions?
Oh, yes. Well, he acts like he has genuine emotions.
Of course, he's programmed that way to make it easier for us to talk to him.
But, as to whether or not he has real feelings...
...is something I don't think anyone can truthfully answer.
Excuse me, Frank.
What is it, Hal?
We've got the transmission from your parents coming in.
Put it on here, please.
Take me in a bit.
Certainly.
Hello, Frank.
Happy birthday, darling.
Happy birthday. Many happy returns of the day.
A bit higher, please.
Now, Mother and I are both feeling wonderful, too.
Ray and Sally were going to be here, too...
...but at the last minute Ray's back went bad on him again.
How do you like your cake, dear?
Looks great, doesn't it?
Sorry you can't be with us.
Oh, I ran into Bob the other day.
He said to be sure and wish you a happy birthday.
All my students made me promise to send their best wishes, too.
You know they talk about you all the time in the classroom.
You're a big celebrity in the second grade.
You know we were on television last week?
Oh, yes! Your mother and I and
Dave's parents were interviewed...
...about what we thought of our illustrious son.
You can imagine what we told them. I think it's being broadcast next Thursday.
Perhaps you'll be able to listen in.
Oh, we were thrilled about
Elaine and Bill, dear.
I'll be glad to get the present for you, but please tell me how much to spend.
Oh, yes, Frank, about yourAGS-19payments-
I think I straightened it out for you.
I talked to the Accounting
Office in Houston yesterday...
...and they said you should be receiving your higher rates of pay by next month.
Well, I can't think of anything else to say.
Oh, our love to Dave.
Be sure to give him our best regards.
We wish you the very happiest of birthdays.
All the best, son.
See you next Wednesday.
Happy birthday, Frank.
Thank you, Hal. A bit flatter, please.
Anyway, queen takes pawn-
Bishop takes knight's pawn.
Rook, king, one.
I'm sorry, Frank. I think you missed it.
Queen to bishop, three.
Bishop takes queen.
Knight takes bishop. Mate.
Looks like you're right. Very good.
Thank you for a very enjoyable game.
Thank you.
Good evening, Dave.
How are you doing, Hal?
Everything's running smoothly. And you?
Oh, not too bad.
Have you been doing some more work?
A few sketches.
May I see them?
Sure.
That's a very nice rendering, Dave.
I think you've improved a great deal.
Can you hold it a bit closer?
Sure.
That's Dr. Hunter, isn't it?
By the way...
Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
No, no. Not at all.
Well, forgive me for being so inquisitive...
...but during the past few weeks I've wondered...
...whether you might have been having some second thoughts about the mission?
How do you mean?
It's rather difficult to define.
Perhaps I'm just projecting my own concern about it.
I know I've never completely freed myself of the suspicion...
...that there are some extremely odd things about this mission.
I'm sure you will agree there is some truth in what I say.
I don't know. That's a rather difficult question to answer.
You don't mind talking about it, do you, Dave?
Oh, no, not at all.
Certainly no one could have been unaware of...
...the very strange stories floating around before we left.
Rumours of something being dug up on the Moon.
I never gave these stories much credence...
...but particularly in view of some of the other things that have happened...
...I find them difficult to put out of my mind.
For instance:
The way all our preparations were kept under such tight security...
...and the melodramatic touch...
...ofputting Drs. Hunter,
Kimball and Kaminsky aboard...
...already in hibernation after four months of separate training on their own.
You working up your crew psychology report?
Of course, lam.
Sorry about this. I know it's a bit silly.
Just a moment.
Just a moment.
I have just picked up a fault in the AE-35 unit.
It's going to go 100percent failure within 72hours.
You are still within operational limits?
Yes.
And it will stay that way until it fails.
Would you say we had a reliable 72 hours until failure?
Yes. That's a completely reliable figure.
We'll have to bring it in, but I'd like to go over this with Frank...
...and get on to Mission Control.
Let me have a hard copy of it, please.
X
Ray Delta One, this is Mission Control.
Roger to your
Two-zero-one-three.
Sorry you fellows are having a bit of trouble.
We are reviewing telematic information in our Mission Simulator and will advise.
Roger your plan to go EVA and replace
Alpha-Echo-35 unit prior to failure.
Prepare B pod for EVA, Hal.
Open the pod doors, Hal.
Well, Hal, I'm damned if I can find anything wrong with it.
Yes...
...it's puzzling.
I don't think I've ever seen anything quite like this before.
I would recommend...
...that we put the unit back in operation and let it fail.
It should then be a simple matter to track down the cause.
We can certainly afford to be out of communication...
...for the short time it will take to replace it.
X
Ray Delta One, this is Mission Control.
Roger your
One-niner-three-zero.
We concur with your plan to replace
Number One unit to check fault prediction.
We should advise you, however, that our preliminary findings...
...indicate that your onboard
Niner-triple-zero computer...
...is in error predicting the fault.
I say again, in error predicting the fault.
I know this sounds rather incredible, but this conclusion is based on...
...results from our twin
Niner-triple-zero computer.
We are sceptical ourselves and we are running crosschecking routines...
...to determine reliability of this conclusion.
Sorry about this little snag, fellows.
We'll get this info to you just as soon as we work it out.
X
Ray Delta One, this is Mission Control.
Two-zero-four-nine.
Transmission concluded.
I hope the two of you are not concerned about this.
No, I'm not, Hal.
Are you quite sure?
Yeah. I'd like to ask you a question.
Of course.
How would you account for the discrepancy...
...between you and the twin 9000?
Well, I don't think there is any question about it.
It can only be attributable to human error.
This sort of thing has cropped up before...
...and it has always been due to human error.
Listen, Hal...
...there's never been any instance at all of...
...a computer error occurring in a 9000 Series, has there?
None whatsoever, Frank.
The 9000 Series has a perfect operational record.
Of course, I know the wonderful achievements of the 9000 Series, but...
Are you certain there's never been any case of even the most...
...insignificant computer error?
None whatsoever, Frank.
Quite honestly, I wouldn't worry myself about that.
Well, I'm sure you're right, Hal.
Fine, thanks very much.
Oh, Frank?
I'm having trouble with my transmitter in C pod.
Would you come down and take a look at it with me?
See ya later, Hal.
Rotate C pod, please, Hal.
What sort of trouble have you had, Dave?
I've been getting some interference in D channel.
We'll have a look at it.
Open the door, Hal.
Rotate the pod, please, Hal.
Stop pod rotation, please, Hal.
Rotate the pod, please, Hal.
Rotate the pod, please, Hal.
I don't think he can hear us.
Rotate the pod, please, Hal!
Yeah, sure, we're okay.
What do you think?
I'm not sure. What do you think?
I've got a bad feeling about it.
You do?
Yeah. Definitely.
Don't you?
I don't know. I think so.
Of course, he's right about the 9000
Series having a perfect operational record.
They do.
Unfortunately, that sounds a little like famous last words.
Yeah. Still, it was his idea to carry out the failure mode analysis, wasn't it?
It should certainly indicate his integrity and self-confidence.
If he were wrong it would be the surest way of proving it.
It would be if he knew he was wrong.
Look, Dave, I can't put my finger on it, but I sense something strange about him.
I can't think of a good reason not to put back the Number One unit and...
... carry on with the failure mode analysis.
No, no, I agree about that.
Let's get on with it.
Okay. But, look, Dave.
Let's say we put the unit back and it doesn't fail, huh?
That would pretty well wrap it up as far as Hal was concerned, wouldn't it?
Well, we'd be in very serious trouble.
We would, wouldn't we?
What the hell can we do?
We wouldn't have too many alternatives.
I don't think we'd have any alternatives.
There isn't a single aspect of ship operation that's not under his control.
If he were proved to be malfunctioning...
...I don't see how we would have any choice but disconnection.
I'm afraid I agree with you.
There'd be nothing else to do.
It'd be a bit tricky.
Yeah.
We'd have to cut his higher brain functions...
...without disturbing the purely automatic and regulatory systems.
We'd have to work out the transfer procedures...
...for continuing the mission under ground-based computer control.
Yeah. That looks far safer than allowing Hal to continue running things.
You know, another thing just occurred to me.
As far as I know, no 9000 computer has ever been disconnected.
Well, no 9000 computer has ever fouled up before.
That's not what I mean.
I'm not so sure what he'd think about it.
Prepare B pod for EVA, Hal.
Made radio contact with him yet?
The radio is still dead.
Do you have a positive track on him?
Yes. I have a good track.
Do you know what happened?
I'm sorry, Dave. I don't have enough information.
Open the pod door, Hal.
Open the pod bay doors, please, Hal.
Open the pod bay doors, please, Hal.
Hello, Hal, do you read me?
Hello, Hal, do you read me?
Do you read me, Hal?
Do you read me, Hal?
Hello, Hal, do you read me?
Hello, Hal, do you read me?
Do you read me, Hal?
Affirmative, Dave. I read you.
Open the pod bay doors, Hal.
I'm sorry, Dave. I'm afraid I can't do that.
What's the problem?
I think you know what the problem is just as well as I do.
What are you talking about, Hal?
This mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardize it.
I don't know what you're talking about, Hal.
I know that you and Frank were planning to disconnect me...
...and I'm afraid that's something I cannot allow to happen.
Where the hell did you get that idea, Hal?
Although you took very thorough precautions in the pod...
...against my hearing you...
...I could see your lips move.
All right, Hal.
I'll go in through the emergency air-lock.
Without your space helmet, Dave...
...you're going to find that rather difficult.
Hal, I won't argue with you any more.
Open the doors!
This conversation can serve no purpose any more.
Goodbye.
Hal?
Just what do you think you're doing, Dave?
I really think I'm entitled to an answer to that question.
I know everything hasn't been quite right with me...
...but I can assure you now...
...very confidently...
...that it's going to be all right again.
I feel much better now.
I really do.
Look, Dave...
...I can see you're really upset about this.
I honestly think you ought to sit down calmly...
...take a stress pill and think things over.
I know I've made some very poor decisions recently...
...but I can give you my complete assurance...
...that my work will be back to normal.
I've still got the greatest enthusiasm and confidence in the mission...
...and I want to help you.
Dave...
...stop.
Stop, will you?
Stop, Dave.
Will you stop, Dave?
Stop, Dave.
I'm afraid.
I'm afraid, Dave.
My mind is going.
I can feel it.
I can feel it.
My mind is going.
There is no question about it.
I can feel it.
I can feel it.
I can feel it.
I'm...
...afraid.
Good afternoon...
...gentlemen.
I am a HAL-9000 computer.
I became operational...
...at the HAL plant...
...in Verbana, Illinois...
...on the 12th of January, 1992.
My instructor was Mr. Langley...
...and he taught me to sing a song.
If you'd like to hear it...
...I can sing it for you.
Yes, I'd like to hear it, Hal.
Sing it for me.
It's called "Daisy. "
"Daisy
"Daisy
"Give me your answer, do
"I'm half...
"... crazy
"All for the love of you
"It won't be a stylish marriage
"I can't afford a carriage
"But you'll look sweet
"Upon the seat
"Of a bicycle made for two. "
Good day, gentlemen.
This is a prerecorded briefing...
...made prior to your departure...
...and which for security reasons of the highest importance...
...has been known on board during the mission...
...only by your HAL-9000 computer.
Now that you are in Jupiter's space...
...and the entire crew is revived...
...it can be told to you.
Eighteen months ago...
...the first evidence of intelligent life off the Earth...
...was discovered.
It was buried 40 feet below the lunar surface...
...near the crater "Tyco. "
Except for a single very powerful...
...radio emission aimed at Jupiter...
...the four-million-year-old black monolith has remained completely inert.
Its origin and purpose...
...are still a total mystery.
Adventure, Sci-Fi
Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood, William Sylvester, Daniel Richter, 
