I'm voting for Dukakis.
Hm...
Well...
Maybe when you have children who need braces you can't afford them because half of your husband's pay cheque goes to the government,
you'll regret that.
My husband's pay cheque?
Anyway I'm not going to squeeze one out until I'm like 30.
Will you still be working at the Yarn Barn?
Because I hear that's a really great place to raise children.
That's really funny.
No, I think a year of partying's enough.
She'll be going to Harvard next fall.
Mom, I haven't even gotten in yet.
You honestly think Michael Dukakis will provide for this country till you are ready to squeeze one out?
Yeah, I do.
When can I squeeze one out?
Not until eighth grade.
Excuse me.
Donnie, you're such a dick.
Whoa, Elizabeth!
A little hostile there.
Maybe you should be the one in therapy, then Mom and Dad can pay someone
200 hundred dollars to listen to all of your thoughts so we don't have to.
Ok. You wanna tell mom and dad why you stopped taking your medication.
You're such a fuck-ass!
Please.
Did you just call me a fuck-ass?
Elizabeth, that's enough.
You can go suck a fuck!
Oh please tell me Elizabeth how exactly does one suck a fuck?
You want me to tell you?
Please tell me.
We will not have this at the dinner table.
Stop.
Fuck...
What's a fuck-ass?
Part of the reason I took a year off was to be with you.
What?
How did you know?
I didn't know it was such a big deal.
It is a big deal.
I'm reading. Get out.
Where do you go at night?
Will you just get out of my room.
Did you toilet-paper the Johnsons' house?
Is that what you came here to ask me?
No.
I stopped rolling houses in the sixth grade mom.
What happened to my son?
I don't recognise this person today.
Then why don't you start taking the goddamn pills.
Bitch.
Our son just called me a bitch.
You're not a bitch.
You're bitching, but you're not a bitch.
I want to be a president of the United States who makes sure that we never again do business with a drug-running Panamanian dictator that we never again funnel aid to the Contras through drug dealers,
Values begin at the top,
Dick-akis... Son of a bitch.
Those are the values I want to bring to the presidency and to the White House beginning of January 1989,
Panama is a friendly country
Tell him, George.
I went down there and talked to the president of Panama about cleaning up their mu.. money laundering,
Mr Noriega was there, but there was no evidence,
When the evidence was there, we indicted him,
Wake up
I've been watching you,
Come closer,
Closer,
28 days, six hours,
42 minutes,
12 seconds,
That is when the world will end.
Why?
Son? Donnie Darko?
Donnie Darko?
What the heck's going on here?
Who is it?
It's Eddie Darko's kid.
He's just a neighbourhood kid.
Guess he was sleep-golfing?
Watch out for that drool spot!
Are you all right, son?
So let's stay off the links at night, Ok?
I'm sorry, Dr Fisher.
It... It won't happen again.
Kids...
Let's golf.
No one's allowed.
This is my house.
I said...
This is my house!
Wait a minute.
There's your brother.
It fell in your room.
Ms Darko? I'm Bob Garland.
I'm with the FAA.
The what?
I'm with the FAA. If you don't mind we would like to speak with you and your husband privately?
In private?
Please.
And here...
Ok.
All right, we have arranged for you to stay at a hotel.
Get some sleep and we'll take care of things here.
Great.
Thank you.
Kids, come on we're going to a hotel.
They don't know where it came from.
<i>- Where's Pop?
He's still at work,</i>
If it fell from the plane... then what happened to the plane?
They don't know, Samantha.
Is there any way we make money from this?
Can't we get on television if we sue the airline?
Shut up, Sam.
Why do I have to sleep with Donnie?
He stinks.
When you fall asleep tonight,
I'm gonna fart in your face.
I'm telling Mom!
Samantha, don't go over there.
Frankie Feedler.
You remember. From high school.
He died. Remember?
On his way to the prom.
They said he was doomed.
Jesus.
They could be saying the same thing about Donnie.
Our Donnie.
But he dodged it.
He dodged his photograph.
Somebody was watching over him.
Mrs Farmer will bring you home after practice. Donnie.... Bye, honey.
Donnie... good luck.
Oh, my God! Ok, tell me everything.
I'm not allowed to talk about it.
Oh, my God!
Hi, Cherita.
Chut up!
Darko cheats death! Huh?
You're like a celebrity, man! I've been like calling you a jillion times. Where you been?
We stayed at a hotel.
hey, my dad said he saw you at the golf course.
You sleepwalking again there, buddy?
I don't want to talk about it.
And now that you're famous, you gotta have a smoke.
What happens if you tell Mom and Dad about this, Sam?
You'll put Ariel in the garbage disposal.
Goddamn right, I will.
So grody.
Hey, Cherita, you want a cigarette?
Chut up!
"Shut up!"
Go back to China, bitch!
Just leave her alone.
That's some good shit, huh?
It's a fucking cigarette.
"There would be headlines in the papers.
"Even the grown-up gangs who ran the betting at the All-ln wrestling and the barrow-boys
"would hear with respect of how Old Misery's house had been destroyed.
"lt was as though this plan had been with him all his life, pondered through the seasons,
"now, in his 15th year, crystallised with the pain of puberty."
What is Graham Greene trying to communicate with this passage?
Why did the children break into Old Misery's house?
Joanie?
They wanted to rob him.
If you had actually read the short story,
Which had a whopping 13 pages, would have kept you up all night, you'd know that the children find a great deal of money in the mattress, but they burn it.
Donnie Darko, perhaps with your recent brush with mass destruction, you can give us your opinion.
Well, they say it right when they flood the house and they tear it to shreds, that like, destruction is a form of creation, so the fact that they burn the money is ironic.
They just want to see what happens when they tear the world apart.
They want to change things.
May we help you?
Yeah, I just registered.
And they put me in the wrong English class.
You look like you belong here.
Um... Where do I sit?
Sit next to the boy you think is the cutest.
Quiet!
Let her choose.
Joanie, get up.
<i>What people don't understand is that Dukakis</i>
<i>does not have the financial infrastructure,</i>
Well, the construction guys say it will take about a week to fix the roof.
Damned airline better not fuck us on the shingle match.
They still don't know?
Know what?
Where it came from?
Oh, no. Apparently, they can't tell us what happened yet.
Something about a matching serial number that got burned.
I had to sign a form saying I wouldn't talk to anyone about it.
So we are not supposed to tell anyone what nobody knows?
Yeah. But you tell...
What's your doctor's name?
Dr Thurman, Dad.
Yes. You tell Dr Thurman whatever you want.
Dad.
What?
Dad!
Oh...!
What's that woman doing standing out in the middle of the damn road?!
No mail today. Maybe tomorrow.
Well what did she say to you?
I made a new friend.
Real or imaginary?
Imaginary.
Would you like to talk about this friend?
Frank.
Frank.
What did Frank say?
He said to follow him.
Follow him? Where?
Into the future.
And then what happens?
And then he said... then he said that the world was coming to an end.
Do you think the world is coming to an end?
No.
That's stupid.
<i>For my entire life l was a victim of my own fear.</i>
<i>Love,</i>
<i>l was feeding fear with food.</i>
<i>Fear,</i>
<i>And finally, I looked in the mirror</i>
<i>Not just in the mirror, l looked THROUGH the mirror,</i>
<i>ln that image, l saw my ego reflection,</i>
<i>For two years, l thought it was normal</i>
<i>for a 10-year-old to wet the bed,</i>
Shh!
<i>But the solution was there all the time,</i>
<i>I'm not afraid any more!</i>
<i>All over America, people have come together to join hands,</i>
<i>People who believe that human life is absolutely too important,</i>
<i>too valuable and too precious to be controlled by fear,</i>
Pay close attention,
You could miss something.
<i>Hello, My name is Jim Cunningham
And welcome to "Controlling Fear".</i>
"... and the prince was led into a world of strange and beautiful magic."
Wow.
"The Last Unicorn" by Samantha Darko.
Give it back!
"There was once a unicorn named Ariel..."
You wrinkled it.
It's not wrinkled, Sam. Just flatten it in a book or something
It's almost 7.45. The bus should've been here like 20 minutes ago.
Maybe Martha finally went nuts and hijacked the bus.
You know there's like this rule - at 7.45, we get to go home.
There's no rule.
Cherita, you should... go home.
Yeah, if you're still here and the bus comes, we'll all get into trouble.
Shut up!
"Shut up!"
Hey, Porky Pig...
I hope you get molested.
Hey! Hey! I can't believe this!
My mom said the school's closed today because it's flooded.
No way!
Yeah.
Holy shit!
That's the best news I've ever heard!
My God, is this ever going to stop?
Eventually, yes it will. But right now, l got 12 classrooms full of water.
All coming from a busted water main.
What else?
What else?
Principal Cole,
I'll show you what else.
That's unbelievable.
That's solid bronze, isn't it?
Yep.
How did this happen?
I heard a cat burglar broke in and trashed everything and the Mongrel got his head cut off.
Hah!
True!
Beth's mom said the boys' locker room flooded and they found faeces everywhere.
What are faeces?
Baby mice.
Hey.
Has anyone ever told you that you're sexy?
I like your boobs.
Hey.
Hey.
School's cancelled.
Do you want to walk me home?
Sure.
Don't look so freaked.
I'm not.
Just... you should check your backpack.
Those guys steal shit.
Fuck 'em!
So, why'd you move here?
My parents got a divorce.
My mom had to get a restraining order against my stepdad.
He has emotional problems.
Oh! I have those, too.
What kind of emotional problems does your dad have?
He stabbed my mom four times in the chest.
Oh. Did he go to jail?
No, he fled.
They still can't find him.
But, my mom and I had to change our names.
I thought Gretchen Ross was pretty cool.
I was in jail once. I mean...
I burned down this house.
It was abandoned, but still I got held back in school and I can't drive till I'm 21.
But I'm over all of that.
I'm... painting and stuff.
Writing. I want to be a writer.
Maybe a painter. Maybe both...
I'll write a book and draw the pictures.
Then maybe people will understand me. I don't know, change things.
Donnie Darko - what the hell kind of name is that?
It's like some sort of superhero or something.
What makes you think I'm not?
Look, I should go. For physics, Monnsnoff is having me write this essay -
Greatest invention ever to benefit mankind.
It's Monnitoff.
But that's easy. Antiseptics.
Like, the whole sanitation thing.
Joseph Lister, 1895.
Before antiseptics, there was no sanitation, especially in medicine.
You mean soap?
Well, I'm really glad school was flooded today.
Why is that?
Because you and i would have never have had this conversation.
You're weird.
Sorry.
No, that was a compliment.
Well, look, uh...
You want to go with me?
Where do you want to go?
No, I mean, like, "go" with me.
That's what we call it here "going together".
Sure.
Ok. Where are you going?
I'm going home.
Stupid...
"Where are you going?"
I'd like to try something new this time.
Have you ever been hypnotised?
No.
And when I clap my hands twice, you will wake up. Do you understand?
Yes.
So, tell me about your week.
I met a girl.
What is her name?
Gretchen.
We're going together now.
Do you still think about girls a lot?
Yeah.
How are things going at school?
I think about girls a lot.
I asked you about school, Donnie.
I think about fucking a lot during school.
What else do you think about during school?
"Married With Children".
You think about your family?
I just turn down the volume and think about fucking Christina Applegate.
I asked you about your family, Donnie.
No.
I don't think about fucking my family. That's gross.
I'd like to hear about your friend Frank.
Sam Bylan.
Cherita Chen.
Donald Darko.
Daye Dennis.
Hey, you fuck!
Did you tell'em that I flooded the school?
I didn't say shit.
Yeah, well, thats not what I heard. They think I did it.
Yeah, well if you're innocent, then you have nothing to worry about, right?
Fuck you! You know what I think?
I think you did it.
Beer and pussy - that's all I need.
So, we gotta find ourselves a Smurfette.
Smurfette?
Mm-hm.
Not some like tight-ass Middlesex chick, you know.
Like, this cute little blonde that'll get down with the guys like Smurfette does.
Smurfette doesn't fuck.
That's bullshit. Smurfette fucks all the other smurfs
Why do you think Papa Smurf made her?
Because all the other Smurfs were getting too horny.
No, no, no, not Vanity.
I heard he was a homosexual.
Ok, well you know what then she fucks them while vanity watches. Ok?
What about Papa Smurf?
I mean he must get some in some of the action?
Yeah, what he does, he films the gang-bang.
Later on, he beats off to the tape.
First of all, Papa Smurf didn't create Smurfette. Gargamel did.
She was sent in as Gargamel's evil spy with the intention of destroying the Smurf village, but the overwhelming goodness of the Smurf way of life transformed her.
And as for the whole gang-bang scenario, it just couldn't happen!
Smurfs are asexual.
They don't even have reproductive organs under those little white pants.
That's what's so illogical you know, about being a Smurf.
What's the point of living if you don't have a dick?
Damnit, Donnie, why do you gotta get so smart on us?
Grandma Death.
Excuse me! Excuse me!
Please stay off the road, Miss Sparrow, or I will call Social Services.
I hate that Miss Farmer.
She's such a fucking bitch!
Yeah.
How old is Grandma Death?
She does the same thing every day.
Just walks back and forth and back and forth to the mailbox.
Nothing ever in there.
Oh, wait, wait, wait...
She goes she's going back to the box.
We may still have mail.
Mail, mail, mail.
Here it is.
This could be it. Oh...?
Oh, no dice, Grandma. Sorry.
Someone ought to write that bitch.
<i>Authorities continued their search</i>
<i>for a suspect in the Middlesex
Ridge School vandalism.</i>
<i>The private school has asked for donations</i>
<i>to restore its beloved mascot, known only as the Mongrel...</i>
It's very helpful.
There's a good turnout tonight.
What are you trying to accomplish here?
There was urine and faeces flooded in my office.
Whatever fits.
"Whatever fits"?
In cooperation with the county police, we have begun an active investigation into the cause of the flooding.
And our suspects include several of our own students...
I want to know why this filth is being taught to our children.
Kitty, I would appreciate if you would wait...
Dr Cole, not only am I a teacher, but I am also a parent of a Middlesex child.
Therefore I am the only person here who transcends the parent-teacher bridge.
Don't worry, you got away with it.
I have in my hand Graham Greene's
"The Destructors".
This short story is part of my daughter's English assignment.
In this story, several children destroy an elderly man's house from inside out.
How can you do that?
And how do they do this?
They flood the house by breaking through a water main.
I can do anything I want.
And so can you.
And I think that this garbage should be removed!
Excuse me.
What is the real issue here?
The PTA doesn't ban books.
The PTA is here to acknowledge that pornography is being taught in our curriculum!
It's meant to be ironic.
Excuse me. You need to go back to grad school.
Why did you make me flood the school?
They are in great danger.
Kitty, do you even know who Graham Greene is?
I think we have all seen "Bonanza".
Well, um... while we are on other topics...
Where'd you come from?
Do you believe in time travel?
Who are you talking to?
I was just taking my pills, Sam.
A storm is coming, Frank says.
A storm that will swallow the children,
And I will deliver them from the kingdom of pain.
I'll deliver the children back to their doorsteps, send the monsters back to the underground.
I'll send them back to a place where no one else can see them.
Except for me.
Because I am Donnie Darko.
Who is Frank?
A six-foot-tall bunny rabbit.
<i>In these modern times,</i>
<i>our attitude and beliefs are so delicate, so fragile.</i>
<i>I have had a Cunning Vision,
This vision has released me.</i>
<i>It's important that our lifeline be rejuvenated,</i>
<i>so that we can breathe again.</i>
<i>It's time to breathe.</i>
<i>It is time to breathe.</i>
<i>Thank you, Jim Cunningham.</i>
<i>Thank you, Jim Cunningham.</i>
<i>So now let us begin Lifeline
Exercise Number One,</i>
<i>Please press stop now.</i>
As you can see, the lifeline is divided into two polar extremes.
Fear and love.
Fear is in the negative energy spectrum.
Love is in the positive energy spectrum.
No, duh!
Excuse me?
"No, duh" is a product of fear.
Now, on each card is a character dilemma which applies to the lifeline.
Please... Take this.
Thank you.
Please read each character dilemma aloud and place an "X' on the lifeline in the appropriate place.
Cherita?
"Juanita has an important math test today.
"She's known about the test for several weeks, but has not studied.
"ln order to keep from failing her class,
Juanita decides that she will cheat on the math test."
Good. Good. Very good.
Mr Darko.
"Ling Ling finds a wallet on the ground filled with money.
"She takes it to the address on the driver's licence but keeps the money inside the wallet."
I'm sorry, Miss Farmer.
I don't get this.
Just place an "X' on the lifeline in the appropriate place.
No, I mean I know what to do, I just dont get this
You can't just lump things into two categories.
Things aren't that simple
The lifeline is divided that way.
Well, life isn't that simple.
I mean...
Who cares if Ling Ling returns the wallet and keeps the money?
It has nothing to do with either fear or love.
Fear and love are the deepest of human emotions.
Ok. But you're not listening to me.
There are other things that need to be take into account here,
Like, the whole spectrum of human emotion.
You can't just lump everything into these two categories and deny everything else!
If you don't complete the assignment, you'll get a zero for the day.
Donald, let me preface this by saying that your Iowa Test scores are... intimidating.
So...
Let's go over this again.
What exactly did you say to Miss Farmer?
I'll tell you what he said.
He asked me to forcibly insert the lifeline exercise card into my anus!
Nobody cares about responsibility, morality, family values...
Kitty... Excuse us, please.
They've suspended him from after- school activities for the next six months.
Ever since this jet engine fiasco, l honestly don't know what's gotten into...
Rose I'll tell you this because our daughters have been on the dance team together for two years and I respect you as a woman, but after witnessing your sons behaviour this afternoon,
I have significant doubts about your...
Our paths through life must be righteous. i urge you to go home and look in the mirror and pray that your son doesn't succumb to the path of fear.
Do you remember that weird gym teacher, Mrs Farmer?
Yeah. Ok, well, my brother told her to shove a book up her ass today.
And then my parents just bought him all this new shit.
Yeah, I know. I wish a jet engine would fall on my room.
Dr Monnitoff.
Donnie.
I know this is gonna sound kind of weird, but do you know anything about... time travel?
A wormhole with an Einstein-Rosen bridge, which is theoretically a wormhole in space controlled by man.
So, according to Hawking, a wormhole may be able to provide a short cut for jumping between two distant regions of space-time.
So in order to travel back in time, you have to have a big spaceship or something that can travel faster than the speed of light.
Theoretically.
And be able to find one of these wormholes.
The basic principles of time travel are there.
You got your vessel and you portal.
Your vessel could be just about anything, most likely a spacecraft
Like a DeLorean?
Metal craft of any kind.
You know, I love that movie.the way they shot it
It's so... like, futuristic, you know?
Listen, um... don't tell anybody that I gave you this.
Woman who wrote this used to teach here.
She was a nun many years before that.
But... then overnight she just... she became this entirely different person.
She up and left the church, she wrote this book...
She started teaching science, right here at Middlesex.
"The Philosophy of Time Travel".
Roberta Sparrow?
That's right.
Roberta Sparrow?
Roberta Sparrow.
Grandma Death.
It's called
"The Philosophy of Time Travel".
What does philosophy have to do with time travel?
Guess who wrote it.
Who?
Roberta Sparrow.
Huh! She wrote a book.
Grandma Death wrote a book.
That's a terrible nickname.
We almost hit her with the car the other day.
She lives up there in that piece of crap house, and you know she's loaded.
You're right. She used to be known for her gem collection.
Kids used to go up there all the time and try to steal stuff from her.
She became a total recluse.
I didn't know she was alive till we damn near knocked her down the other day.
She was just standing there in the middle of the road, frozen.
So I got out of the car and
I walked over to see if she was OK.
And she leaned over and whispered in my ear.
What did she say?
I mean, I think Frank wants me to go talk to her.
Beacuse the last timeI saw him he asked if I knew about time travel.
And she wrote a book about it,
So that can't be like a coincidence, right?
Donnie, what did Roberta Sparrow say to you?
She said that every living creature on earth dies alone.
How did that make you feel?
It reminded me of my dog Callie.
She died when I was eight and she crawled underneath the... the porch.
To die.
To be alone.
Do you feel alone right now?
I don't know...
I mean I'd like to believe I'm not, but I just...
I've just never seen any proof, so I just don't debate it any more. its like I could spend my whole life debating it over and over waying the pros and cons and in the end I still wouldn't have proof, so I just don't debate it any more.
It's absurd.
The search for God is absurd?
It is if everyone dies alone.
Does that scare you?
I don't want to be alone.
And so his tapes have made me realise that for the last 39 years, I have been a prisoner of my own fear.
Fear.
Rose, you have got to meet this Jim Cunningham.
I can't believe he's single.
<i>It has been a disappointing night for these Super Bowl champions.</i>
<i>You're right, Dan, Coach Joe Gibbs is on the sidelines.</i>
<i>He's gotta be thinking, "What happened? What went wrong tonight?"</i>
<i>- And here's the kick!</i>
<i>It's no good...</i>
Shit, we need a quarterback.
We need a miracle.
We need to go for a safety.
<i>What the future holds for this MVP, we'll have to wait and see.</i>
You guys want anything?
<i>This week on "Who's The Boss?"
Samantha borrows Tony's van</i>
<i>and gets caught without a licence.</i>
<i>Better make sure we don't miss that one.</i>
<i>Here we are again,
Fourth down now...</i>
Ok, lets not forget tomorrow, we are meeting with our partners for the Young Inventors' Fair.
What happened to your neck?
You have blood on your neck.
I don't want to talk about it
So, what are we gonna invent
What if you could go back in time and take all those hours of pain and darkness and replace them with something better?
Like images or what?
Yeah, like a Hawaiian sunset or the Grand Canyon.
Things that remind you how beautiful the world is...
You know we've been going together for like two weeks.
Yeah?
Well, I er... I...
You want to kiss me?
I'm sorry, I...
Look, Donnie, wait. I just...
Well, I like you a lot.
I just want it to be at a time when... it...
When what?
When it reminds me just...
When it reminds you how beautiful the world can be?
Yeah.
And right now there's some fat guy over there staring at us.
I don't think telling any woman to forcibly insert an object up her anus is something that should go without consequence.
I think we should buy him a moped.
I think we should get a divorce.
You are not going to tell Mom, are you?
Why would I tell mom?
Coz, you tell Mom everything.
No, I don't.
Let me see it.
No, it's not finished. It's...
Ok. It's cool.
That's scary.
You think?
Thank you for seeing us at such a late notice.
We both felt that it was time for us to come and discuss...
What I think is going on with your son.
Yes.
Um... Well, he's er...
You know about his past, and he was suspended from school for insulting his gym teacher.
I'm not really sure that's a good example.
I think he had just cause.
Rose, let me just lay out what I believe is happening here.
Donnie's aggressive behaviour... his increased detachment from reality, seem to stem from his inability to cope with the forces in the world that he perceives to be threatening.
Has he ever told you about his friend Frank?
Frank?
Yes, the giant bunny rabbit.
The what?
I don't recall him ever having mentioned a rabbit.
Donnie is experiencing what is commonly called a daylight hallucination.
This is a common occurrence among paranoid schizophrenics.
What can we do?
I would like to do more hypnotherapy...
...and increase his medication.
Whatever will help him, really, is... That's why we're here.
We just would like him to experience some relief.
So if you think that more medication will do that, then I think we should give it a try.
It's complicated.
Yeah?
There's like a force you know in your brain that just sends you someplace.
Do you go someplace familiar?
No, but each time I keep waking up farther from my house.
Scary.
Donnie Darko.
I know.
Good morning, you mongrels!
Good morning.
Is that all the guster you can muster? i said, Good morning!
Good morning!
Now, that's a tiny, tiny bit better.
But I can still sense some students out there who are actually afraid to say "good morning".
Good morning!
Yeah, that's what I like to hear!
Coz entirely, too many young men and women today are completely paralysed by their fears.
They surrender their bodies to the temptation and destruction of drugs, alcohol and premarital sex.
Now, I'm going to tell you a little story today.
It's a heartbreakingly sad story about a young man whose life was completely destroyed by these instruments of fear, a young man searching for love in all the wrong places.
His name was Frank.
We're moving through time.
What?
Hi. My stepsister, like,
I sometimes worry that she eats too much.
Shut up, Kim!
I'm just trying to help you.
Oh, sweetheart, sweetheart, please!
There's absolutely no reason to be embarrassed here.
Many times we eat because we are afraid to face our ego reflection. Alright?
We find ourselves looking at the mirror, rather than into and through the mirror.
When we do that, we can finally see the reality of how beautiful we are.
Thanks! - Sure. Come on up here.
Don't be afraid.
Er, how can I find out what I wanna be when I grow up?
Oh! That's a hard one.
Well, what i need you to do is look deep inside of yourself, deep within your heart, and find what is in the world that makes you feel love, pure, unconditional love. And go to that.
In your studies, in your athletics, in your relationships, go towards love.
Thank you.
Come on up.
Next.
What do I do to learn how to fight?
"What do I do to learn how to fight?"
Son, violence is a product of fear.
Learn to truly love yourself -
TRULY love yourself - and the world will be yours.
Ok.
Get yourself up here!
All right!
Good morning.
Good morning!
Um... How much are they paying you to be here?
Er... Excuse me?
What's your name, son?
Gerald.
Well, Gerald, l think you're afraid.
Are you telling us this stuff so we can buy your book?
Because I gotta tell you if you are that was some of the worst advice I ever heard.
See how sad this is?
Want your sister to lose weight?
Tell her to get off the couch, stop eating Twinkies and maybe go out for field hockey.
You know what no one ever knows what they want to be.
It takes a little while to find that out.
Right, Jim?
And you...
Yeah, you.
Sick of some jerk shoving your head down the toilet?
Well, you know what maybe you should lift some weights or take a karate lesson, and the next time he tries to do it you kick him in the balls.
Son... Do you see this? This is an anger prisoner, a textbook example.
Prisoner.
Do you see the fear, people?
This boy is scared to death.
Son, it breaks my heart to say this, but I believe you're a very troubled and confused young man. i believe you are searching the answers in all the wrong places.
You're right, actually.
I am pretty troubled and I'm pretty confused.
And I'm afraid, really, really afraid. Really afraid, but I... I...
I think you're a fucking Antichrist.
It's amazing.
The man thinks he's telling the truth. and everything he says is just a fucking lie.
Everything he says!
Everyone thinks he's so rad.
He's such a fucking chud...
Everything he does...
Are you ok?
Sit down. Calm down.
You ever hear of Grandma Death?
Who?
"The Philosophy of Time Travel".
What is this?
She wrote it.
I'm... I'm seeing stuff...
Like a lot of really messed-up stuff.
And there's chapters in that book that describes the stuff I've been seeing, and it can't just be a coincidence.
She gotta be in here somewhere.
She never leaves this house.
Maybe she's asleep.
Donnie, look.
Send her a letter.
Each vessel travels along a vector through space-time along its centre of gravity.
Like a spear.
I beg your pardon?
Like a spear coming out of your chest.
Um... Sure. Yeah.
In order for the vessel to travel through time, it's got to find a portal, or in this case wormhole or...
Could these portals...?
Could these portals just appear anywhere, any time?
I think that's highly unlikely.
No, I think what you're talking about is an act of God.
Well, if God controls time, and all time's pre-decided.
I'm not following you.
Every living thing follows along a set path.
And if you could see your path or channel, then you could see into the future?
That's also a form of time travel.
Well, you're contradicting yourself.
If we were able to see our destinies manifest themselves visually, then we would be given a choice to betray our destinies.
And the mere fact that this choice exists would make all preformed destiny come to an end.
Not if you travel within God's channel.
I'm not going to be able to continue this conversation.
Why?
I could lose my job.
Ok.
It gives me no pleasure to deny you the right to read one of the great writers of the 20th century.
But, alas, I have not yet been elected queen of the universe, so I must obey the rules.
And so will you.
So, anyone seen in this school reading this book will be suspended.
But, not to worry.
Someone has already pre-ordered a dozen copies at the Sarasota Mall bookstore.
In Mr Greene's absence, we will now be reading another classic -"Watership Down" by Richard Adams.
Here, Donnie.
Pass these back.
Maybe you and Frank can read this one together.
Now you know where he lives.
And they grow out of our... chest, solar plexus?
Just like she described in the book, the way they moved and they smelled.
It's like they're workers.
Assigned to each one of us.
They just... They're like liquid.
I followed it into my parents' bedroom.
What did you find?
Nothing.
So we call them IMGs.
Infant Memory Generators.
So the idea is that you buy these glasses for your infant, and they wear them at night when they sleep.
But inside the glasses are these slide photographs.
And each photograph is of something peaceful or beautiful, whatever the parents want to put inside.
And what effect do you think that this would have on an infant?
Well, the thing is nobody remembers their infancy.
Anybody who says they do is lying.
So, we think this will help develop memory earlier in life.
Yeah.
And did you stop and think that maybe infants need darkness
That maybe darkness is part of their natural development?
No.
Yeah.
What if the parents, like, put in pictures of Satan or dead people, crap like that?
Is that what you'd show your kids?
Er, well, I mean, didn't your dad, like, stab your mom?
Get out.
Gretchen!
Gretchen! Gretchen.
I'm sorry about those guys.
Two for "Evil Dead", please.
That'll be $2.
Why do you wear that stupid bunny suit?
Why are you wearing that stupid man suit?
Take it off.
What happened to your eye?
Why do they call you Frank?
It is the name of my father.
And his father before me.
Frank...
When's this going to stop?
You should already know that.
I want you to watch the movie screen.
There's something l want to show you.
Have you ever seen a portal?
Burn it to the ground.
Ok. Now, girls, l want you to concentrate.
Failure is not an option.
And, Bethany, if you feel the need to vomit up there, just swallow it.
Ok, Mom.
Hey, you guys, good luck out there.
Now, that was really something.
Thank you, Cherita Chen, with "Autumn Angel".
Now the moment we've all been waiting for is here
It is my very distinct pleasure to introduce to you Emily Bates, Suzy Bailey,
Samantha Darko, Beth Farmer and Joanie James.
They are Sparkle Motion.
How long was I asleep for?
Whole movie.
Well, look what the cat dragged in!
How you doing, Donnie?
Your little sister was broken-hearted that you missed her big show last night.
Dad?
Hm?
I'm crazy.
You're not crazy.
I used to be crazy.
But you're not crazy.
Look, you're my only son...
I know...
No, hold it. I know I'm not the best communicator, but...
...whatever happens to you.
Be honest, tell the truth, even if they do look at you funny -they will.
But what you gotta understand, son, is that almost all of those people are full of shit.
They're all part of this great big conspiracy of bullshit.
And they're scared of people like you.
Because those bullshitters know that you're smarter than all of them.
You know what you say to people like that? Hm?
"Fuck you."
<i>The blaze was extinguished sometime after 8,00 last night.</i>
<i>Firefighters discovered what has been referred to</i>
<i>as a kiddie porn dungeon,</i>
<i>Cunningham, who has become a recent celebrity, was arrested...</i>
Oh, my God!
<i>Arson has not been ruled out as the cause of the fire,</i>
<i>Now a group of Cunning Vision employees...</i>
Dad played golf with that guy.
<i>...vehemently denied the alleged link</i>
<i>to a child pornography publishing circuit.</i>
<i>In a vicious statement, Connie attacked fire department officials,</i>
<i>claiming a mass conspiracy.</i>
I'm sorry, Karen.
This is a progressive school,
But we don't feel the methods you have undertaken here are appropriate.
What exactly about my methods are inappropriate?
I am sorry that you have failed.
Now, if you'll excuse me, l have another appointment.
You can finish out the week.
Fuck!
Good afternoon.
It gives me great pleasure to announce that the Middlesex Ridge School dance team has been invited to perform on
"Star Search '88" in Los Angeles, California.
<i>- I know now a terrible thing is coming. - What do you mean?</i>
<i>The field, the field, it's covered with blood,</i>
<i>Blood? Don't be silly.</i>
<i>All right, it's getting dark,
We should get back to the burrow.</i>
<i>Back to the burrow? It'll come there, it's all around us!</i>
<i>- Stop it, Fiver,
We've got to leave here.</i>
When the other rabbits hear of Fiver's vision,
Do they believe him?
Why should we care?
Because the rabbits are us, Donnie.
Why should I mourn for a rabbit?
Like it was human.
Are you saying that the death of one species is less tragic than another?
Of course. A rabbit's not like us.
You know, it has no history books, no photographs, no knowledge of sorrow or regret.
I'm sorry. Don't get me wrong,
You know l like rabbits.
They're cute and horny.
And if you're cute and horny,
You're probably happy.
You don't know who you are or why you're even alive.
I mean, you just want to have sex as many times as possible before you die.
I just don't see the point in crying over a dead rabbit... who never even feared death to begin with.
You're wrong.
These rabbits can talk, they are the product of the author's imagination.
And he cares for them, so we care for them,
Otherwise we've just missed the point.
Aren't we forgetting about the miracle of storytelling?
The deus ex machina?
The god machine?
That's what saved the rabbits.
No, it was ridiculous.
I'll call you back.
Rose.
Kitty.
Rose, I'm sure you're aware of the horrible allegations against Jim Cunningham.
I know I saw it on TV. Something about a kiddie porn dungeon...
Oh, please, please!
Don't use those words!
It's obviously some kind of conspiracy to destroy an innocent man.
And I have taken it upon myself to spearhead the Jim Cunningham defence campaign.
Rose, I have to appear at his arraignment tomorrow morning.
And as you know the girls are scheduled to leave for Los Angeles in the morning.
Now, as their coach, I was the obvious choice to chaperone them on their trip.
But now you can't go.
Yes.
Now, believe me, of all the other mothers,
I would never dream of asking you.
But none of the other mothers are available to go.
I don't know, Kitty. It's a bad weekend. Eddie's in New York.
Rose, I don't know if you realise what an opportunity this is for our daughters!
This has been a dream of Samantha's and all of ours for a long time.
I made her lead dancer!
Sometimes I doubt your commitment to Sparkle Motion!
Elizabeth will be in charge.
She'll drive you to therapy.
And if you need anything, you promise me that you will call Dr Thurman?
How's it feel to have a wacko for a son?
It feels wonderful.
Here... I'm sorry! Here you are!
Hey, you guys are gonna win. I know it.
So do I.
Here's the keys. There's tons of food in the fridge and I left money on the kitchen table And please do not...
Mom, go.
You're gonna miss your plane.
Mom, I need...
There's nothing broken in my brain.
I know.
Bye, Donnie.
Ok, go. Go!
Hello, Donnie.
It's Friday.
Shouldn't you be off with your friends, scaring old people?
What's going on?
I don't know. That's a good question.
Suffice, to say I'm no longer your English teacher.
They fired me.
That's bullshit!
You're the only good teacher here.
Thank you.
What's "cellar door"?
This famous linguist once said that of all the phrases in the English language, of all the endless combinations of words in all of history,
"cellar door" is the most beautiful.
"Cellar door."
I promise that one day everything's gonna be better for you.
Chut up!
I want to talk about your past today.
No-
I want to talk about you and your parents.
They didn't buy me what I wanted for Christmas.
What did you want for Christmas that year?
Hungry Hungry Hippos.
How did you feel, being denied these Hungry Hungry Hippos?
Regret.
What else makes you feel regret?
That I did it again.
You did it again?
I flooded my school and I burned down that pervert's house.
I only have a few days left before they catch me.
Did Frank tell you to do these things?
I have to obey him.
He saved my life.
I have to obey him or I'll be left all alone.
And then...
And then I won't be able to figure out what this is all about.
I won't be able to know his master plan.
Do you mean God's master plan?
Do you now believe in God?
I have the power to build a time machine.
How is that possible?
How is time travel possible,
Donnie?
Time's up, Frank said.
When is this going to happen?
Soon.
What is going to happen?
Frank is gonna kill.
Who is he going to kill?
Who is he going to kill, Donnie?
I can see him right now!
The sky's gonna open up.
If the sky were to suddenly open up, there would be no law, there would be no rule.
There would only be you and your memories,
The choices you've made and the people you've touched.
If this world were to end, there would only be you and him...
...and no one else.
You can stop taking your medication.
They're placebos.
Just pills made out of water.
Thank you.
Donnie...
An atheist is someone who denies altogether the existence of God.
You're an agnostic.
An agnostic is someone... who believes that there can be no proof of the existence of God, but does not deny a possibility that God exists.
Goodbye, Dr Thurman.
Hey.
I got in.
I am going to Harvard.
Hey, we should totally throw a party. I mean Mom and Dad are gone.
It's Halloween Carnival.
We could totally get away with it.
Ok. But it has to be small, right?
We got eggs, water balloons and a dozen rolls of toilet paper.
I stole four beers from my dad.
We got a keg.
Keg beer is for pussies.
Rose, this is Lilian Thurman.
It is extremely important that you call me as soon as you get this message.
Thank you.
You ok?
Yeah. My mom's gone.
You want to come in?
I don't know.
She didn't leave a note and the house was all messed up.
But you're ok.
Did you call the cops?
Yeah, they said l should leave the house and that I should go to a safe place.
I'm just so scared. I keep thinking something awful is happening and...
It's my fucking stepdad, I know it.
I guess some people are just born with tragedy in their blood.
Hey, have you guys seen Frank?
No, I think they said they were going on a beer run.
If you're there, please pick up.
Oh, well, Good news,
The girls got three and a half stars and they get to comeback for the quarter-finals.
Samantha was amazing, Anyway...
We're gonna take the red-eye back tonight and...
Mom, the plane's about to leave.
Yeah. Ok.
We'll take the red-eye back tonight, we should arrive around 8:30 in the morning.
Um... I hope everything's...
I hope everything's all right.
I love you. Bye.
Come with me.
Where are we going?
Donnie?
Look, we gotta go.
We have to see Grandma Death.
Why? Is it about the book?
No, it's Frank.
Donnie...
Time is running out! We gotta go.
Donnie, nobody's here.
Let's just forget about it.
"Cellar door."
What?
Donnie! Donnie!
Donnie!
Why the fuck are you here?
Hey! Oh, my God!
You're dead!
What do we do?
Oh! Shit!
Leave them alone!
Don't fucking move! Don't fucking move!
What did I say?
There's a car!
Get the hell out of here, now!
Come on!
Seth, there's a car coming. Let's go!
I have a bigger knife now.
Fuck!
Did you call the fucking cops?
Deus ex machina.
What did you just say?
What the fuck did you just say?
Our saviour.
Donnie!
Frank...
Is she dead?
What were you guys doing in the middle of the road?!
What were you thinking?
Go home!
Go home and tell your parents everything's gonne be ok.
Go!
The storm is coming.
You must hurry.
I'm going home.
Dear Roberta Sparrow,
I've reached the end of your book and there's so many things l need to ask you.
Sometimes I'm afraid of what you might tell me.
Sometimes I'm afraid that you'll tell me that this is not a work of fiction.
I can only hope that the answers will come to me in my sleep.
I hope that when the world comes to an end
I can breathe a sigh of relief because there will be so much to look forward to.
Hey. What's going on?
Horrible accident.
My neighbour... got killed.
What happened?
Got smushed by a jet engine.
What was his name?
Donnie. Donnie Darko.
I feel bad for his family.
Yeah.
Did you know him?
No.
