Where you gonna be
10 years from now?
Ten years from now, where do I wanna be?
I wanna be... just living, man. Just living comfortably with my wife, you know.
Just layin' back. Just chilling.
You know what I'm saying? Living.
Where do I think I'll be in 10 years?
I don't think I'll be seeing it, dog, for real, man. I don't think my luck is that good.
I hope it is, but if it ain't, so be it. I'm ready. ♪ Come on
Hah, sicker than your average poppa ♪ ♪ Twist cabbage off instinct
Niggas don't think shit stink
Pink gators, my Detroit players ♪
- Puffy! Congratulations! ♪ Timbs for my hooligans in Brooklyn ♪ ♪ Dead right, if they head right
Biggie there every night ♪ ♪ Poppa been smooth since days of Underoos ♪
Can't wait for the new album, man.
Congratulations.
Yeah!
Yo, Big, let's change the world.
Let's roll. Let's roll, y'all.
You need a real man.
We back, baby. We back!
No doubt.
We back on top, baby!
Yo, what's up, ma?
What's up?
You looking fine.
I'm going to have to get your number.
I don't know.
What's up with you?
In the beginning,
God gave me a clean slate.
But where I grew up,
I knew I couldn't stay clean.
If you was a nice, ordinary kid, you was an easy mark for the wannabe gangsters and cutthroat girls in the school yard.
You wanna check out this magazine?
Right on. Let's go.
Fab 5 Freddy. There we go.
Kurtis Blow, man!
He's the man! You know ♪ Clap your hands, everybody
If you got what it takes ♪ ♪ 'Cause I'm Kurtis Blow and I want you to know that these are the breaks ♪ ♪ Break it up, break it up, break it up ♪
There we go.
Yeah.
I know.
Y'all want our autograph?
We gonna be in a magazine one day.
Chris Shy-ass can't be in no magazine.
He's too fat, black and ugly.
At least there ain't no train tracks in my mouth.
What do I tell you?
If you just pay attention, you study hard, always do your best and look what happens.
A hundred percent!
I'm proud of you, Chrissy-poo.
Don't call me that!
Oh, I forgot.
You're all grown-up now, huh?
My moms was from a small town in Jamaica where they left the doors unlocked at night.
But in our neighborhood, the only time she let me off the stoop... was when she walked me home from school.
We've seen that 12, 13 times.
Don't you wanna see something different?
This was Brooklyn.
Do-or-die Bed-Stuy.
- And there was just some shit
Moms couldn't protect me from.
Voletta.
Christopher, say hello to your father.
You are still beautiful,
Voletta.
If that's what you came for you can leave right now.
Sugar?
A hundred dollars.
Is that all he's worth to you?
Are you even planning on being in his life?
- Things are complicated.
- Things?
I feel like if you and I could just
It was easy to lie about your wife.
Now, when it comes to your child,
"things" are complicated.
Bye, Voletta.
Hey!
You forgot something.
You're a real piece of shit.
What's up, y'all? This is
Super Rocking Mr. Magic holding it down.
This is DJ Marley Marl.
Check it out, y'all. It's all the way live.
It's time for bed, mister.
He ain't coming back, is he?
No. I don't believe so.
Good. I'm glad.
Oh.
Come here.
We're gonna be all right, just you and me. ♪ You ain't no pops to me ♪ ♪ You just some nigga sipping on tea ♪ ♪ Moms don't want your money so run and flee ♪
Flee ♪ Back all hunched over
'cause you gotta admit ♪ ♪ I don't need you in my life
'cause you ain't shit ♪ ♪ Hey, ho
Hey, ho ♪
Right then and there, I decided to stop being that little kid on the stoop. ♪ Hey, ho
Hey, ho ♪
I wanted to be like them brothers on the block.
They didn't hold their heads down for no one. ♪ Hey, ho
Hey, ho ♪
I knew life was a fucked-up game, and I knew D Roc was fucked up enough to show me how to play.
What's up, D Roc?
What up, big boy?
Your mama finally let you out the house? Told you I would come.
I ain't on lockdown like that.
So you ready to be a big baller?
What I gotta do?
Remember, just act like you slapping the nigga five. ♪ Five, six
One, one, two, two, three ♪ ♪ Four, four, five, six
One, two, three, four, five ♪
The phone is ringing.
Motherfuckers got addicted to crack after they first hit, but I got addicted to money after my first sale.
By the time I was 17, I wasn't no ordinary kid. I was paid.
- Christopher, you're not still lying in that bed, are you?
- No.
Christopher, what are you doing?
You saying your prayers?
Praying that God teaches you how to knock.
Please. Don't you mock your prayers.
You don't think Jehovah has a sense of humor?
He must have, if he made you.
We always gotta listen to this corny old country music?
I happen to like this music.
They tell good stories.
So, who were you yappin' on the phone with last night?
Jan.
It's perfectly normal for a mother to feel jealous... when her son cares about another female.
Oh, for crying out loud!
- By the way, Ma
- What?
- How much does a garbage collector make?
- I think about 28,000 a year. Why?
- No reason.
- Would you hurry up before you make us both late for class?
- Hey, Voletta. Is that the new Watchtower?
- Of course.
We gonna see you this weekend, right? ♪ "W" for Wallace
Rappers are demolished ♪ ♪ Wax 'em and buff 'em like polish ♪ ♪ Don't I look like the illest thing you ever saw ♪ ♪ Live with action guaranteed raw ♪ ♪ Rappers are demolished ♪ ♪ Wax 'em and buff 'em like polish ♪
Shit!
- You need to add 3X to the other side.
Now, you need to solve the problem for X.
Who wants to come up and do that?
Come on up, Mr. Wallace.
7X equals 84, then 12 equals X.
Impressive.
You're actually smarter than you look.
Ooh!
- Mr. Webber.
Yesterday you said I was gonna end up a garbageman. That's right.
If you keep cutting class, that's exactly what you'll become.
Well, I found out a teacher makes 24,000 a year, and a garbageuan makes 28,000 a year.
I'm gonna make $4,000 more than his dumb ass.
All right. Get out.
Hey! Get out of my class.
Thanks for meeting up.
You know you got it like that.
When my moms see that phone bill, she gonna kill me.
We gotta chill with all that wild-ass phone sex.
Um
I'm pregnant.
I-I went to the doctor and everything.
We gonna have a baby.
- Damn.
- Damn?
Is that it? I was halfway hoping you was gonna be happy.
But if this fucks up your world, then I'm sorry.
Whoa, whoa.
Jan, hold up. Sit down, baby.
What you talking about? Sit down.
What's wrong with you?
If you're carrying my seed, it means you are my world.
- You're not sitting there thinking, "Oh, fuck"?
- No, I'm not.
- You know I got you.
- You got me?
No doubt.
Come here.
Oh, fuck.
What up, D Roc?
Yo, what up, son?
You okay?
Yeah, I'm all right.
Let's get this money then.
Me and D Roc were like factory workers, and Fulton Street was the assembly line. ♪ Here we go ♪
But every now and then,
D Roc would say, "Yo, can I get a rhyme?"
See, drug dealing was like my wife.
Rapping was just some chick on the side.
Before I knew it, word got out about my skills and shit.
Then this kid named Primo called me out.
Everyone was jocking him,
'cause he never lost a battle.
It was one thing to rhyme for your boys, but it was another to battle.
- 'Bout time you stopped running.
- 'Bout time your ass stopped talking shit.
Yeah. That's Chris.
Come on, man.
Get out of here. Y'all got big
This what y'all wanna see? Huh?
Y'all wanna see me and big boy?
We got MC quest out here.
That's what MC Quest.
Come on, man.
Y'all know who the king of Fulton is.
Hey, deejay, play me something nice, man.
All right. Do it.
I'm gonna get some barbecue chicken when I'm done with big boy.
You sure you don't want no barbecue chicken? ♪ Now let me tell you a little story about the P-P-Preem ♪ ♪ Preem head bald like Mr. Clean ♪ ♪ And Preem be fresh like Irish Spring ♪ ♪ And 'round here
I'm raining and reigning king ♪ ♪ Big Preem
Coming from the borough of Brooks ♪ ♪ You sweet on the mike so your mike get took ♪ ♪ Play a slowjam track and I'll smoke that ass ♪ ♪ Techno track and I smoke that ass ♪ ♪ You can't see me
It's like you blind ♪ ♪ I call you son 'cause you mine not 'cause you shine ♪
- Man, get this fool out of here. You can't be serious, man.
- Let's do it though, kid.
Come on. What you got, big boy? ♪ Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn where this rapper was originated ♪ ♪ Your rhymes ain't shit
Your flow's constipated ♪ ♪ Many awaited the heavyset brother from Fulton Street ♪ ♪ Drop a rhyme to a funky beat ♪ ♪ Niggas wanna know how I live the mack life ♪ ♪ Making money smoking mikes like crack pipes ♪ ♪ Making loot knocking boots on the regular ♪ ♪ Pass the microphone
I'm the perfect competitor ♪ ♪ Jewels and all that
The clothes is all that ♪ ♪ Come step it to me
That's where you take your fall at
B.I.G., just like my murder ♪ ♪ It's unheard of
I stay close to mine like Tina on Turner ♪ ♪ Word to mother
I'm above ya ♪ ♪ And I love ya
'cause you a sweet bitch ♪ ♪ A crazy crab that might make my dick itch ♪ ♪ I flow looser than Luther
You have to get used to
B.I.G. is the boss trooper ♪ ♪ Like ice cream, I'll scoop ya
I got it going on ♪ ♪ Live with action, guaranteed raw ♪ ♪ For all you bum-ass niggas ♪
Yo, that was hot.
That's what I'm talking about.
Get him downtown.
Primo. Who the hell is that?
Word!
What's up, Mom Dukes?
So I was by Fulton Records and I thought,
"What would make Slim happy?"
So I bought you the corniest country album I could find.
In the last month, you have missed 20 days of school.
All right. Look.
I tried, Ma.
I missed a few days.
But I went back three weeks straight.
Then three people came to my class on career day: a computer technician, a store owner, a doctor,
- and they all looked like poor, broke-down niggas.
- You watch your mouth.
I can't see myself going to school to end up like them, 'cause I got something to do right now.
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
Jan's pregnant. I'm gonna be a father.
Please tell me that you are not that stupid.
Why would you even say something like that?
Because you are still a damn boy.
Is this why you think
I came to the States
So I can spend all my days taking care of you, feeding you?
- Cleaning up old plates of mashed potatoes you leave under your bed?
- What?
- You can't take care of yourself.
How are you gonna take care of a baby?
- What did you do with it?
- Where's the plate?
- I threw it in the trash. It was disgusting.
It's my work, man.
- What are you doing?
- Those wasn't no damn mashed potatoes, all right?
Look at me.
I said, "Look at me."
Are you telling me what I think you're telling me?
Boy, you gonna end up like those worthless bums you hang with.
Don't you see that? Bums don't have chains, and boys don't have money. I'm a man.
You think that makes you a man?
Get out.
- Ma.
- Get out.
<i>The fuck is goin' on</i>
I wasn't the man my moms wanted me to be.
So fuck it. I was gonna be the man I needed to be. ♪ When I die, fuck it
I wanna go to hell ♪ ♪ 'Cause I'm a piece of shit
It ain't hard to fuckin' tell ♪ ♪ It don't make sense, goin' to heaven wit' the goodie-goodies dressed in white ♪ ♪ I like black Timbs and black hoodies ♪ ♪ God will probably have me on some real strict shit ♪ ♪ No sleepin' all day ♪
- What up, baby?
- What up, man?
- Yo! What up, Chris?
- I'm telling you, Lil' Cee, the corner ain't no place for you.
- Yo, man. I'm just chilling. That's all.
Yo, D!
Yo, D. Come here.
- Hell.
- Come here, man. Come here.
Does this look like a Lamaze class to you?
Hey, yo, Sandy, take your ass home.
- Come on!
- I got this. ♪ She don't even love me like she did when I was younger ♪ ♪ Suckin' on her chest just to stop my fuckin' hunger ♪ ♪ I wonder if I died would tears come to her eyes ♪ ♪ Forgive me for my disrespect
Forgive me for my lies ♪ ♪ My baby mother's eight months
Her little sister's two ♪
- Thanks, black man. ♪ I swear to God, I wanna just slit my wrists and end this bullshit ♪
- Yo, D!
- Fuck you, man!
- I love you too, Sandy.
Yo! You selling crack to someone who's pregnant.
Fuck a pregnant bitch. I ain't get in this game to be no social worker. ♪ A worthless fuckin' Buddha-head ♪
I got tired of that nickel-and-dime shit, so I stepped up my game. ♪ I feel like death is fuckin' callin' me ♪ ♪ Nah, you wouldn't understand ♪ ♪ Nigga, talk to me, please ♪ ♪ You see, it's kinda like the crack did to Pookie in New Jack ♪
I had four young cats out on the streets.
Look at you, man.
All grown up and shit.
Shut the fuck up and get back by the door.
I wasn't hanging with my boys, wasn't messing with no chicks.
I was too busy counting paper.
But I was moving too fucking fast and I slipped up.
You have a collect call from
Christopher Wallace.
...an inmate at the Wake County Jail.
Ma.
Damn you, Christopher.
I fucked up.
I need your help.
No. You got yourself into this mess.
You get yourself out.
I can't ask you to pray for me?
I never stop praying for you.
But you need to stop wasting God's time and pray for yourself.
So it's like that?
It is like that.
Close your eyes, Christopher.
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
I will fear no evil, for thou art with me.
Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies.
My cup runneth over.
Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life.
You got yourself into this mess. You get yourself out.
That was the first time in my life I thought if
I was dead, my fucking problems would go away.
I started rhyming 'cause I was bored.
Plain and simple.
But then my frustrations turned into rhymes, and those rhymes told my story. ♪ The 23rd Psalm was what my moms had to offer ♪ ♪ No collection plate to make hard time feel softer ♪ ♪ I know how it feels to wake up fucked up ♪ ♪ Pockets broke as hell
Another rock to sell ♪ ♪ I got P-A-I-D
That's why my moms hates me ♪ ♪ She was forced to kick me out, no doubt ♪ ♪ Then I figured out nicks went for 20 down south ♪
<i>Christopher, it's a girl.</i> ♪ I know how it feels to wake up fucked up ♪ ♪ Pockets broke as hell
Another rock to sell ♪ ♪ Baby on the way
Mad bills to pay ♪
Welcome home.
Oh.
Where is she?
Oh. All right. All right.
Here. Let me take that.
Give me that.
T'yanna, say hello to your daddy.
Let me see.
Come on.
Here.
No, no, no, no. Like this.
Hmm.
Oh.
What's wrong, Ma?
She ain't that ugly.
Chris!
Mmm.
Hey, what's going on?
Chris?
You be a great father.
No doubt. No doubt, Ma.
Yo, what's up?
Hey. Look who's back, man.
Oh, shoot!
Yo, it's Chris, man. What's up, Chris?
- What you doing down here, man?
- I'm chilling. I'm chilling.
Holding niggas down in here, man.
You know he a pop now, right?
Word! Are you a pop?
Yeah.
Yo, what you got, a boy or girl?
- Little girl.
- Wow. Thank God she look like her mother.
- You know Mister Cee right here.
- What's up, dog? How are you?
Hey, yo, Big. I hope you remember how to smoke one of these.
It's what I do, man.
Keep this out your hand.
That's for grown folks, man.
- Give me that shit.
- Hey, yo. Now that you out, what you gonna do?
Having a daughter made me want to be a different kind of cat.
Got a little shorty I gotta support, you know what I'm saying?
But not being able to support her felt like a whole other kind of jail.
- Me and D Roc gonna hold it down like we always did.
- Hell, yeah.
Come on.
Come on. One, two. Yeah. ♪ The microphone murderer mass mayhem maker ♪ ♪ B.I.G. is on the mike
Call the undertaker ♪ ♪ Make an appointment and schedule an interview ♪ ♪ Because you know what big man's about to do ♪ ♪ 50 Grand on the Technic with the right beat ♪ ♪ Brothers wanna hear the words ♪
Hold up, hold up.
What'd you say at the beginning of your rhyme? B.I.G.?
- Biggie Smalls.
- Biggie Smalls, huh?
- Let's do it again, nigga.
- Hey, yo, son. Your shit got nice.
- For real. - But, yo, if you gonna put it down like that, we gotta record this shit.
- Nigga, don't be gassing me up.
- I'm just saying. I know motherfuckers who know motherfuckers.
Then pop a tape in, nigga.
All right, yo.
Let's do this. Let's take it from the top, Biggie Smalls.
A whole lot of niggas want Big to do a demo tape
Yo, 50, what's this ♪ Uh, the microphone murderer mass mayhem maker ♪ ♪ B.I.G.'s on the mike
Call the undertaker ♪ ♪ Make an appointment and schedule an interview ♪ ♪ Because you know what big man's about to do ♪ ♪ 50 Grand on the Technics with the right beat ♪ ♪ Brothers wanna hear the word the big man speak ♪ ♪ The microphone a-ripping
The burner got the clip in ♪ ♪ Slamming MC's like Scottie Pippen ♪ ♪ Sipping on Old Gold cold
'cause the rhymes were sold ♪ ♪ Puffing on dime bags and I've been told ♪ ♪ My words are harder than a brick Chinese arithmetic a thick stick in my dick ♪ ♪ Makes me sick when you pick ♪
<i>That's it, right there.</i> ♪ Your weak rap rhymes, G I'm kicking and pumping It's tic-tac time, see ♪ ♪ The B.I.G. moves swifter than a ninja ♪ ♪ Even on stickups
I'm the masked avenger ♪ ♪ Keep my eyes open and the case is closed ♪ ♪ No eyewitnesses
No names are exposed ♪ ♪ It's the heavyset one with the big gun and the sweet tongue taking down everyone ♪ ♪ Coop like Michael Jackson
Kicks like Bo Jackson ♪ ♪ Fuck like Freddy Jackson
No need for action ♪ ♪ My crew, ooh
No fronting, no faking moves ♪ ♪ Hot into fucking and even when we stick a move ♪
He got sex appeal like LL?
Yeah, a little bigger than that.
What, like Heavy D?
He a little darker than that.
Yo, he look like Wesley Snipes?
He ain't Wesley.
Okay?
Yo, bring him in. Bring him in.
Yes, bring him in, please.
This is Biggie Smalls.
You know Mister Cee and, um
D Roc. What up?
D Roc.
Uh, y'all have a seat.
So my boy said that you was digging the tape.
I know what you did for Jodeci and Mary J.
And I got rhymes for days, know what I'm saying?
What kind of story you trying to tell?
I guess I'm trying to tell a story about a average nigga from Brooklyn. Know what I'm saying?
- Nigga gotta figure out that life shit.
- You still hustling?
So you don't get it twisted,
I'm not against making money.
My business is about the streets, but my business ain't in the streets.
And I can't be building nothing around no artist that can get locked up any minute.
I'm saying, if you got real paper coming my way, I'm out the game.
Don't chase the paper.
Chase the dream!
I started off as Andre Harrell's assistant.
Now I'm damn near running this place.
Nigga, I'm hungry! You can throw me butt-naked in the jungle, and I'll come out with a with a chinchilla coat, a leopard hat and
10 pounds heavier from eating them niggas.
- With all due respect, Puff, dreams ain't paying the bills, G.
- His do.
Puffy, I don't know about a chinchilla, but if you throw me out to the jungle,
I'll have them motherfuckers dancing.
Maybe in the right hands,
I could be, like, one of the greatest.
Hmm.
- How old are you?
- Nineteen.
By the time you 21,
I'll make you into a millionaire.
We can change the world, Biggie Smalls.
We can change this game.
Saying the West Coast They got
Snoop, they got Dre, they got Cube.
They killing it. The East Coast just waitin' for somebody to fill that void.
The decision is yours.
You can be the average nigga from Brooklyn or you can rap about the average nigga from Brooklyn.
You gotta let me know whether it's the streets or the studio.
So you in?
What's up, big mama?
What'd you just call me?
Big mama.
You looking damn good.
How's work today?
Every day you ask me how I'm doing.
What's that about?
- It's 'cause I care. Know what I'm saying?
- Yeah, right.
Whatever you say, big poppa.
You got a smart-ass mouth.
You gonna do something about it?
I ain't think so.
Hold up.
You wanna get something to eat?
Fuck. Oh, I like it.
Oh, shit, Big.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Oh, damn.
I want you to get on top of me, Big.
Mm-mmm.
Oh.
Oh, it feels so good, big poppa.
Oh. Oh. Oh!
You seein' anybody?
Kind of late to be asking.
Well, I was seeing someone.
He kept thinkin' we was in a Mike Tyson fight.
Ain't nobody gonna hurt you no more.
I got you, all right?
Oh, shit.
We got Puff out, huh?
Been out here waiting for y'all asses.
What's up, man?
- What's up, Big?
- What's up?
Andre said there only can be one lion in the jungle.
The fuck you talking 'bout?
I got fired, Big.
So what about my deal?
You really had my ass goin'.
Just didn't know it was all fucking bullshit.
Only thing I got lined up is some some college shows.
It's gonna be a minute before I get something real.
Hey, Big.
My father died hustling on these streets when I was two years old.
Ain't no future in this right here.
Just because we got knocked down, don't mean we can't get back up.
What don't break a nigga make a nigga.
I thought I had a record deal, and now I can't even buy fuckin' diapers for T'yanna.
Gotta punch the clock and shit.
I thought you told Puff you gonna stop hustling, man. I thought I was.
- Oh, shit.
- Shit!
Yo, toss that! Toss that!
- We got another one.
He's heading to Saint Mark's.
There's nowhere to go.
Let's do this the easy way, huh?
- Show me your hands.
Come on, show me your hands.
You show me your hands,
I'll put the piece away.
You know, when I was a kid, you had a switchblade, brass knuckles, you were a bad dude.
Now you got 13-year-olds looking to shoot the big niggers on the corner so they could start running shit themselves.
I mean, what the fuck is the world coming to when a drug dealer can't walk the streets at night?
Tell me, Chris, what do you put on first?
- Your socks, your jacket, your piece?
- I ain't never saw that gun before.
- So then it must be yours.
- Nah.
Okay, dumb fucks, one of you is goin' down for carrying an illegal firearm.
Whichever one it is,
I don't give a shit.
But there's no way that the two of you are walkin' out of here.
I give you one minute.
He just trying to make us sweat. Yo, we play hardball with him, he's gonna dust it for prints.
We'll cross that bridge when we get there. No, by then it'll be too late.
Look, y-you got priors.
You're looking at five or six years, easy.
If I plead guilty, I get three and a day.
- No, D Roc. My gun, my bid.
- No, man. That's bullshit.
Look, this music shit you got going on
It don't come around every fuckin' day.
When a motherfucker like you make it, we all make it.
What if I don't make it?
Listen.
I told you how to get into the drug game.
Now I'm telling you how to get the fuck out.
You don't have a record deal?
Then go out and get one.
But you're not going back on the block.
Not when you got the skills to do something, and not if I take this bid for your ass.
So you're gonna make it.
So?
I put my socks on first, motherfucker.
Okay.
Go ahead. Take a walk.
Big, what's going on?
You good?
Look, Mark, I'm gonna be for real about this shit.
This is my motherfucking life, you feel me? I got a kid.
I feel like I'm stuck in the mud, yo.
Tell Puff I'm down with chasing the dream.
Whatever he want me to do, I'm in.
But this shit gotta jump off now.
I'm gonna tell Puff.
Look, I got you.
Puff will be right with you. ♪ This is going out to all the pimps and macks ♪ ♪ Y'all know the flavor Brooklyn style
You know how we do ♪ ♪ Is it true
All I wanna do is screw ♪ ♪ Drink brew with the crew on the avenue ♪ ♪ Ooh, I flip skins like Mary Lou ♪ ♪ So what you gonna do when she'll come for you, boo ♪ ♪ I got girls that look like Toni Braxton ♪ ♪ And give me the skins without aksin' ♪ ♪ When I'm relaxin' on my back and you know what time it is, oh ♪ ♪ But if it's red, man
I'll leave you alone ♪ ♪ She can call me on my cellular phone ♪ ♪ And I'll mess around and pick you up
Take you to the crib, stick you up ♪ ♪ And put my Silk CD and lick you, ooh ♪
<i>Yeah, Big. You ready.</i> ♪ Hit the twat till your pops call the cops ♪ ♪ And when I make bail out of jail
I'm-a wail on that tail ♪ ♪ Because sex never fails
This is going out to the pimps and macks ♪ ♪ This is for the macks and dons ♪
- What up, Howard University?
What up?
Y'all ready for the next performer?
All right, coming to you from do-or-die Bed-Stuy, Biggie Smalls!
Also known as Notorious B.I.G.
Who is that?
What's up, y'all? How you feel, Big?
...Business instead of Game.
I need y'all to get loud right now...
- Do your thing, a'ight?
...and give it up for Notorious B.I.G.!
- A-Yo!
- All right!
Puff made a name for hisself when he went to Howard.
But my name didn't mean shit to that crowd.
Yo!
All right!
Hey, Howard. I'm back.
Go get it, big man.
I wanted to do so fuckin' good.
I felt like I owed it to D Roc.
I felt like I owed it to myself.
Welcome to B.I.G.
- Get the fuck out of here.
- Got you, Big. I got you.
All right?
Where my niggas at?
Don't stop. We won't stop.
Let's go. Let's go.
Stop. ♪ I was a terror since the public school era ♪ ♪ Bathroom passes, cuttin' classes squeezing asses ♪ ♪ Smoking blunts was a daily routine since 13
A chubby nigga on the scene ♪ ♪ I used to have the tre-deuce and the deuce-deuce in my bubblegoose ♪ ♪ Now I got the MAC in my knapsack
Lounging black
Smoking sacks up in acts with sidekicks ♪ ♪ With my sidekicks rocking fly kicks
Honeys wanna chat but all we wanna know ♪ ♪ Is where the party at
And can I bring my gat ♪ ♪ It don't take nothing ♪
- What up, Pac?
Vince. How's it going?
Good to see you. ♪ Dumping out, just me and my crew
'Cause all we gonna do is ♪ ♪ Bullshit and party and bullshit and party ♪ ♪ And bullshit and party and bullshit and party and bullshit ♪
<i>Next verse.</i> ♪ Honeys in the back looking righteous
In a tight dress I think I might just ♪ ♪ Hit 'em with a little Biggie 101 how I tote guns ♪
What up, Pac?
Hey, man.
You hitting the stage tonight? No. You know,
I'm just here for the recreational activities. ♪ Smoking, drinking
Got the hooker thinkin' ♪ ♪ If money smell bad then that nigga Biggie stinking ♪ ♪ Niggas start to loke out
A kid got choked out ♪ ♪ Blows were thrown and a fucking fight broke out ♪
Yeah.
Yo, chill! ♪ Can't we just all get along
So I can put hickeys on your chest like Little Shawn ♪ ♪ Get you pissy drunk off of Dom Pérignon
And it's on ♪ ♪ And I'm gone
That's that party ♪ ♪ And bullshit and party and bullshit and party ♪ ♪ And bullshit and party and bullshit and party ♪ Hey
- All right!
I saw Tupac about 20 times in Juice.
Now here I was walking into a party with him.
It was crazy. Females were ready to jump out their clothes to get at him.
Yo, man. And all the brothers gave him mad respect.
What's up, baby? When you starting out, that's the best time.
'Cause as soon as you get on top, that's when the shit start.
I figured if it was this good starting out, then being as large as Pac must be the shit.
Catch you later, Big.
You see that fine-ass girl over there?
Which one?
Right over there. ♪ Before I flip a script you know I must keep you dozing ♪ ♪ Into the stage of the Buckshot
Shorty Son, pass the boom ♪
That's my joint. ♪ Never, ever, ever get played
Kill that ♪ ♪ Bust a mad cap in your back
'cause I'm all that ♪ ♪ Straight from Crooklyn
Better known as Brooklyn
Elude the hook and ♪
Nice voice. ♪ The whole beat's took in ♪
- Keep going.
- Why? So you can laugh?
I ain't gonna laugh at you.
Least not to your face. ♪ My mental is criminal
Felony thought subliminal ♪ ♪ Sinful, quick to trigger pull ♪ ♪ Grab a pocketful of duckets
So what ♪ ♪ Fuck it
Don't give a damn
Niggas know who I am ♪ ♪ See, a bitch like me come and do you in your sleep ♪ ♪ You wake up, shook up
Running scared in the streets ♪ ♪ Known around town as the bitch who gets down ♪ ♪ Till they put me in a cell or they put me in the ground ♪
- That's tight.
- But?
Dudes want to hear some sexiness come out a chick's mouth, not no gangsta shit. ♪ Your whole world changed when you... ♪
Wait. Wait.
Loosen up.
Go on. ♪ Your whole world changed when you heard me rap ♪ ♪ Hand on your dick while my ass you smack ♪ ♪ Wanna take off my panties and put it in the hole ♪ ♪ But this ain't cheap, nigga
Gots to pay a toll ♪ ♪ Give a nigga head and no, I never bite ♪ ♪ Sexy-ass lyrics you know you kind of like ♪ ♪ Mike in my hand
You better understand ♪ ♪ Lil' Kim be the baddest bitch in Brooklyn ♪
Damn, shorty.
I'm loving that.
Yeah?
Uh-huh.
What else you love? Mmm.
I love it when you call me Big Poppa.
I don't understand what you're doing.
I am being a man.
You're coming in here all hours of the night. Jan's calling me. Me and Jan ain't even kicking it.
You breaking up with your daughter too?
You too busy hanging out to go see her.
I'm not hanging out. I'm working.
And I'm starting to question what this job really is.
Puff got it all lined up.
What kind of man, grown-ass man, calls himself "Puffy"?
That's just absolutely ridiculous. Puffy doesn't even have a job himself. It's not even like that.
It's not like what? It's not like what? Jesus.
- What isn't it like, huh?
- Excuse me, Ms. Wallace.
If I could just explain why Chris has been late.
Please. I want to hear this.
Yes, ma'am. Uh
Your son has something special.
And sometimes it's gonna mean late nights and hard work, but I think it's gonna pay off.
Now, the minute I see him slacking,
I'll be the first to let you know.
I been talking to Mark about becoming my manager.
Good.
And if you're asking me to hold you equally responsible, Mark believe me, I will.
Yes, ma'am.
- I need to have a word with Chris.
- Yes, ma'am.
My doctor found a lump in my chest.
What?
My surgery is next week. They need to act aggressively if I'm gonna have a chance.
- "If"? What is that supposed to mean?
- I want to be up front with you, Christopher.
No, Ma. No, I don't want to hear all that. No, listen.
I need you to know something. Christopher!
Please! I don't want to hear this, Ma.
Listen, yo.
I got these ideas in my head.
Like, I've been thinking all night.
I-I can't get Whoo!
L- Look, look, yo. I've been thinkin' about my cousin Wayne. He's smart.
I been thinking about bringing him in to help me with the management.
I think you'll dig him, Big.
Yo.
Big. Big.
Do you want to talk about it?
About what?
I mean, whatever's buggin' you, Big.
You haven't said shit for the past couple days, man.
My moms has breast cancer.
Talkin' gonna fix that?
Shit.
No. I guess not.
I was only 15 when I lost my moms to cancer.
How'd you deal with shit?
I ain't feel like talking.
Look, Big, I know you goin' through hard times right now.
But you're gonna have to be a soldier for your moms.
You gonna have to be there and support her, man.
I'm gonna pray for your moms, Big.
Some of y'all wrote me off.
Maybe some of y'all in this room.
- But what don't break a nigga will make a nigga!
- Yeah.
- To Bad Boy Records!
To Bad Boy!
Yo, Puff, can I holler at you for a minute?
Yeah, I wanna talk to you.
- Yo, how your moms?
- Gettin' her strength back.
She just got back from the hospital.
Look, Puff, man, this Bad Boy shit for real?
Let me show you something.
Yo, I took this here to Clive Davis.
Big on Side One — Biggie Smalls
Side Two, Craig Mack.
B.I.G. Mack.
It's the B.I.G. Mack. Feel me?
What the hell could he say?
Just open it.
Welcome to Bad Boy.
Doctors got all the cancer out of her.
My moms was gonna live.
And me? I was finally gonna change my life. ♪ Love got to do ♪ ♪ When I'm rippin' all through your whole crew ♪ ♪ Strapped like bamboo but I don't sling guns ♪ ♪ I got bags of funk and it's sellin' by the tons ♪ ♪ Niggas wanna know how I live the mack life ♪ ♪ Making money smoking mikes like crack pipes ♪ ♪ It's type simple and plain to maintain ♪ ♪ Add a little funk to the brain
The funk, baby ♪ ♪ I live for the funk ♪
<i>The funk, baby</i> ♪ I live for the funk, I'll die for the funk I'll die for the funk ♪ ♪ I live for the funk, I'll die for the funk ♪ Fuck around and be hard-core. ♪ I live for the funk, I'll die for the funk ♪ - That's hot. That's hot. I love it.
- This could be my first single.
- I want you to hear something. ♪ Juicy fruit ♪ ♪ Juicy ♪ ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ Juicy fruit ♪ ♪ Candy rain
Comin' down ♪
- See what I'm saying?
I'm trying to get niggas out their seat.
This going to be like soul music.
- If I spit this, niggas going to be laughing at me.
If you spit this, niggas going to be laughing at you all the way to the bank, Big.
What's next? You want me to dance like MC Hammer?
Look, you give me that street shit for Side B.
But if I don't have something I can play on the radio, nobody'll ever hear or buy your album.
You'll just be a broke-ass, mix-tape rapper. Trust me, Big.
Yo. Puff got a point.
And he's burning a lot of money in the studio.
These niggas look like Rick James.
- Yo.
- I need some time, man.
You gotta do what you gotta do.
Yo, come back in, like, an hour or two. We'll have something ready by then. Puff, I got this.
All right.
All day.
Yo, Cease. I'm gonna need some Pepsi and some more weed.
- All right, man.
- And some females. Tell them we having a party.
- About time, baby! I'll be right back.
- Let me hear that one more time. ♪ Juicy fruit ♪ ♪ Juicy ♪
What's up? That's 500.
Game over, man. Now you mad.
You lost. Loser.
Hey, yo, Big.
Your baby mama on the phone.
Not right now, man.
All right, man. I got you. ♪ You're my sugar thing
My chocolate star ♪
Look, Big, have you written some lyrics down yet?
Gotta find some inspiration. ♪ But you're the only one ♪ ♪ That gives me good and plenty ♪
- Yeah? Yeah?
How that feel?
You ready to go in the studio, Big?
Puff's on his way over.
- Come on. Wake up. Pull that track up.
- We don't pay you to sleep. ♪ Live from Bedford-Stuyvesant the livest one ♪ ♪ Representing B.K. to the fullest
Gats I pull it ♪ ♪ Bastards ducking when Big be buckin' ♪ ♪ Chickenheads be cluckin' in my bathroom fuckin' ♪ ♪ It ain't nothing ♪
Yo, uh, any time you wanna stop playin'.
Drop the drum.
Uh ♪ It was all a dream
I used to read Word Up magazine ♪ ♪ Salt-N-Pepa and Heavy D up in the limousine ♪ ♪ Hanging pictures on my wall ♪ ♪ Every Saturday, Rap Attack
Mr. Magic, Marley Marl ♪ ♪ I let my tape rock till my tape popped ♪ ♪ Smoking weed and bamboo sipping on Private Stock ♪ ♪ Way back, when I had the red and black lumberjack with the hat to match ♪ ♪ Remember Rappin' Duke
Duh-ha, duh-ha ♪ ♪ You never thought that hip-hop would take it this far ♪ ♪ Now I'm in the limelight
'cause I rhyme tight ♪
- That's that money, baby!
- That's fire. That's fire. ♪ Born sinner
The opposite of a winner ♪
- Yo, he ain't write this down?
- I don't even know.
I mean, I think.
Tell you the truth,
I'm a little fucked up right now. ♪ I'm blowin' up like you thought I would ♪ ♪ Call the crib
Same numbers, same hood ♪
Yeah, Big. ♪ It's all good
Uh ♪ ♪ And if you don't know now you know, nigga ♪
That shit just clicked.
Puffy gave it that gloss.
The way them snares hitting them vocals dropped, he took that track from 100 percent to 200 percent.
They started saying we brought the funk back to hip-hop.
All I know is,
I was doing what I always did.
Bad Boy Records is taking over the rap game with Craig Mack burning up the charts.
And now everybody's excited about the
Notorious B.I.G.'s debut album, Ready to Die. ♪ Just like uniblab robotic kickin' flab ♪ ♪ My flavor be the badder chitter-chatter
Madder than the Mad Hatter ♪ ♪ I bet you my shit come out fatter
Got the data ♪
If they didn't know
Puff Daddy and Biggie Smalls before, they damn sure knew us now. ♪ The king is what I mean
I mean ♪ ♪ My man, get a cup and put some change inside your hand ♪ ♪ Now hold up
Let's make this official ♪ ♪ Everybody, let's agree that M.C.'s need a tissue ♪ ♪ The funk's my only issue
I bet your mama miss you ♪
This is my man, right here. ♪ And I bet the Mack take off like an M.X. missile ♪ ♪ No more of your whinin' on the charts climbin' ♪ ♪ As I make the funk kickin' out harder than a diamond ♪ ♪ And if you didn't know who's rhymin' ♪ ♪ I guess I'm gonna say Craig Mack with perfect timin' ♪ ♪ You won't be around next year ♪ ♪ My rap's too severe
Kickin' mad flava in your ear ♪
<i>Kick his ass</i> ♪ Here comes the brand-new flava in your ear ♪ ♪ Time for new flava in your ear ♪ ♪ I'm kickin' new flava in your ear ♪ ♪ Mack's the brand-new flava in your ear ♪ ♪ Craig Mack, 1,000 degrees ♪ ♪ You'll be on your knees
You'll be burnin', begging please ♪ ♪ Brother, freeze ♪ ♪ Deep-booted funk smoke that leaves your brains booted ♪ ♪ This bad M.C. with stamina like Bruce Jenner ♪ ♪ The winner
Tasting M.C.'s for dinner ♪ ♪ You're crazy like that glue to think that you could outdo my one-two ♪ ♪ That's sick like the flu ♪
<i>Shake 'em down</i>
How y'all been?
I wanna thank each and every one of y'all for helping us celebrate the Ready to Die album. Thank you.
Hip-hop ain't never going to be the same... because of this man right here,
Biggie Smalls!
The Notorious B.I.G.!
You got something to say?
Brooklyn, we did it!
Take your crown. Take your crown.
Have a seat, Big. You're a Brooklyn king. ♪ Biggie Biggie Biggie
Smalls is the illest ♪ ♪ Yeah
Biggie Biggie Biggie Smalls is the illest ♪ ♪ Live from Bedford-Stuyvesant
The livest one ♪ ♪ Representing B.K. to the fullest
Gats I pull it ♪
<i>It's a hot party.</i> ♪ Bastards ducking when Big be buckin' ♪ ♪ Chickenheads be cluckin' in my bathroom fuckin' B.K. all day. ♪ ♪ It ain't nothing
They know Big be handlin' ♪ ♪ With the MAC in the Ack door panelin' ♪ ♪ Bandagin' MCs
Oxygen they can't breathe ♪ ♪ Mad tricks up the sleeve
Wear boxers so my dick can breathe ♪
- What's up, homey?
- What's up?
Yeah. I'm-a be right back. Hey, hold this. Don't let them go nowhere.
What's up, homey?
Congratulations!
We doing it.
- You shining, baby. Congratulations!
- Get my man a bottle.
No doubt. What's up?
- Yo, how well you know them cats?
Oh, they just helping me with this movie I'm doing. They cool.
Mmm. Watch the company you keep, man. They got a rep.
So? Nigga, you got a rep.
So what the fuck you saying?
Shit. I'm a bad boy!
- Yo, Pac, Big. Can I get you to say a couple words for the camera?
Man, fuck your camera!
No, I'm fucking with you. Come on.
Hey, yo, check it out, motherfucker! I'm Tupac.
I'm chilling here with my homeboy the Notorious B.I.G. on the scene.
We about to take y'all motherfuckers by storm. Give them something, Big.
True, that. True, that. You know, I'm chilling with my man Pac, who schooled me to the game and shit.
Yeah, they know who it is.
You know what I'm saying?
Now we about to wreak havoc on you motherfuckers, man.
You know what I'm saying?
Chandon sippers.
Know what I mean? Frank
White piece holders. Yeah!
Rolex diamond. You know what it is, nigga. Get some. Get some.
We taking your money and buying your bitches with your money.
That's right, nigga. You'll see.
Come get some, motherfucker!
If I ain't holdin' my dick, I'm sleepin' and then you holdin' it, bitch!
I'm wearing this to my first show coming up.
What you think?
That ain't bad.
Ain't bad?
You must be going blind.
I'm trying to make you the Marilyn Monroe of hip-hop.
That ain't turning no heads.
- So I should lose the suspenders?
- Keep the suspenders.
Lose the shirt.
- Like this?
- Mmm.
Like that. Yeah.
- Faith, come on. Get it going.
That's good. Move, Faith.
Yeah, good.
Come on, y'all. This ain't no funeral.
It ain't even a photo.
It's a mission statement.
Bad Boy ain't here to be in the game.
Bad Boy here to take over the game.
Everybody, take 10 minutes.
Watching Faith, all I could think was, "Damn!"
She was like some chick fresh off a movie screen.
My baby. Thank you.
So, why a brother gotta be left out in the cold?
You done show everyone up in here them pictures, except me.
Look, uh, no offense.
I think you're an incredible rapper and I'm sure you're a nice guy, but I don't need all that right now.
All what?
What you saying?
You don't need a brother to make you smile?
Sorry, but I'm not smiling.
Not yet.
All right, fine. My daughter, Chyna.
- She's beautiful.
- Thank you.
Just like her mother.
What were you doing before you hooked up with Puffy?
Pharmaceuticals. You know how it is. Typical.
So, are you a bad guy trying to be good, or a good guy trying to be bad?
I'm someone trying to make it.
How'd you start singing?
North Baptist Church choir.
Typical.
I wrote a couple joints for other artists and finally I got my shot.
I don't know what I'd be doing, but I ain't think I'd be doing this.
When I was a little girl, everybody told me singing was my destiny, but I was secretly hoping to make a career at doing the beat box.
No! Get out of here. I know you ain't trying to say you know how to beat box.
You trying to play me out?
Let me hear some old-school flavor.
You gonna rhyme?
I'm going to tear it down.
Shh.
You shootin' jabs? ♪ Some call me Biggie or B.I.G. ♪ ♪ I'm just chilling in the place to be ♪ ♪ And I ain't trying to preach or teach some knowledge ♪ ♪ I'm just trying to call you FEW
Faith Evans Wallace ♪
Ta-da!
I like your laugh. It's sexy.
Why don't you let me do that?
Do what?
Make you laugh.
Can I be that man? ♪ Oh, oh
Check it out ♪ ♪ To all the ladies in the place with style and grace ♪ ♪ Allow me to lace these lyrical ♪
- Man, you're making all the big niggas sexy again, brother. All right?
Yo, Big. Thanks for representing for the brothers hustling on the corners, man.
Your storytelling is the shit. For real. I could picture everything you're rapping about.
- Shit is like a fucking movie.
- For real, man.
- Shit.
- What's up, Big? Can you sign right here for me?
Right there.
I do all this for you, baby.
I love you, Big Poppa!
- I love y'all, too.
We had been seeing each other for three weeks.
But I ain't wanna wait another minute.
In prosperity and adversity.
Prosperity and adversity.
And, forsaking all others, to always be faithful.
You know me about a month, Big.
Don't say it if you're not ready.
And, forsaking all others, to always be true.
With the power vested in me,
I now pronounce you husband and wife.
You may kiss the bride.
You got it goin' on
Let's get it.
<i>Come on!</i> ♪ Uh, wha wha ♪ ♪ You got it goin' on
Wha wha ♪ ♪ I used to be scared of the dick ♪
- Is she for real? ♪ Now I throw lips to the shit
Handle it like a real bitch ♪ ♪ Heather Hunter, Janet Jacme
Take it in the butt ♪ ♪ Yeah, yeah, what, I got... ♪
- No! That's not the way I said do it.
- Maybe I don't feel like doin' it your wack-ass way.
- Look, bitch, stop being so fucking difficult.
- Who you calling a bitch, nigga?
You wasn't talking that shit when you was eating my pussy the other night.
Turn that shit off.
- Are you out of your fucking mind?
- Are you out of yours?
- Since when do you start treating me like a ho?
- She's my wife.
And what the fuck am I?
Someone whose ass I took out of the fucking department stores.
Ain't that what you wanted?
You said, "I got you."
Shit.
"No one's gonna hurt you no more."
Look, this fucking recording studio ain't big enough for all that personal shit.
What do you see in her that you don't see in me? I want to know.
You're my fucking artist.
All right?
You're my fucking artist.
That's all I am to you, Big?
Do the fucking song. ♪ Throw your motherfucking hands in the air ♪ ♪ Throw your motherfuckin' hands in the air ♪ ♪ Check it out ♪ ♪ Somebody say, "B.I.G." ♪
B.I.G.! ♪ Say, "B.I.G." ♪
B.I.G.!
Everybody put your middle fingers in the air like this and turn it like this!
<i>Check it and let me hear you say</i> ♪ "Fuck that side" ♪
Fuck that side! ♪ Say, "Fuck that side" ♪
Fuck that side! ♪ Say, "Fuck that side" ♪
Fuck that side! ♪ Who the fuck is this paging me at 5:46 in the mornin' ♪ ♪ Crack of dawnin' now I'm yawnin' ♪ ♪ Wipe the cold out my eyes ♪ ♪ See who's this pagin' me and why ♪ ♪ It's my nigga Pop from the barbershop ♪ ♪ Told me he was in the gamblin' spot
I heard the intricate plot ♪ ♪ Some niggas wanna stick me like flypaper, neighbor ♪ ♪ Slow down, love
Please chill, drop the caper ♪ ♪ Remember them niggas from the hill up in Brownsville ♪ ♪ That you rolled dice wit'
Smoked blunts and got nice wit' ♪ ♪ Yeah, my nigga Fame up in Prospect ♪ ♪ Nah, that's my nigga
Nah, love wouldn't disrespect ♪ ♪ I didn't say Dem
They schooled me to some niggas that you knew from back when ♪ ♪ When you was clockin' minor figures ♪ ♪ Now they heard you blowin' up like nitro ♪ ♪ And they wanna stick the knife through your windpipe slow ♪ ♪ So, thank Fame for warnin' me
'cause now I'm warnin' you ♪ ♪ I got the mack nigga
Tell me what you gonna do ♪
Damn! ♪ Niggas wanna stick me for my paper ♪
Damn! ♪ Niggas wanna stick me for my paper ♪ ♪ Do my ladies run this motherfucker ♪
Hell, yeah!
Hello.
Is Chris home?
No.
Know when he'll be back?
I don't.
Is there a message?
Um
Tell him he needs to visit his daughter every once in a while.
For this next song right here, on this side!
<i>Yeah</i> And on that side!
Yo, and in the middle I want everybody in the building to throw your hands in the air! ♪ It's all good, baby, baby ♪ ♪ It was all a dream
I used to read Word Up magazine ♪ ♪ Salt-N-Pepa and Heavy D up in the limousine ♪ ♪ Hanging pictures on my wall ♪ ♪ Every Saturday, Rap Attack
Mr. Magic, Marley Marl ♪ ♪ I let my tape rock till my tape popped ♪ ♪ Smoking weed and bamboo
Sipping on Private Stock ♪ ♪ Way back when I had the red and black lumberjack with the hat to match ♪ ♪ Remember Rappin' Duke duh-ha, duh-ha ♪ ♪ You never thought that hip-hop would take it this far ♪ ♪ Now I'm in the limelight
'cause I rhyme tight ♪ ♪ Time to get paid blow up like the World Trade ♪ ♪ Born sinner the opposite of a winner ♪ ♪ Remember when I used to eat sardines for dinner ♪ ♪ Peace to Ron G, Brucey B, Kid Capri ♪ ♪ Funkmaster Flex, Lovebug Starsky ♪ ♪ I'm blowin' up like you thought I would ♪ ♪ Call the crib same number, same hood It's all good ♪ ♪ And if you don't know now you know ♪
- Ladies!
You know very well!
- I can't hear you
- Who you are!
- A little louder
- Don't let 'em hold you down! ♪ And if you don't know now you know ♪ ♪ I made the change from a common thief ♪ ♪ To up close and personal with Robin Leach ♪ ♪ And I'm far from cheap I smoke skunk with my peeps all day ♪ ♪ Spread love
It's the Brooklyn way ♪ ♪ The Moët and Alizé keep me pissy
Girls used to dis me ♪ ♪ Now they write letters
'cause they miss me ♪ ♪ I never thought it could happen this rappin' stuff ♪ ♪ I was too used to packin' gats and stuff ♪ ♪ Now honeys play me close like butter played toast ♪ ♪ From the Mississippi down to the East Coast ♪ ♪ Condos in Queens indo for weeks ♪ ♪ Sold out seats to hear Biggie Smalls speak ♪ ♪ Livin' life without fear
Puttin' five karats in my baby girl's ear ♪ ♪ Lunches, brunches
Interviews by the pool ♪ ♪ Considered a fool
'cause I dropped out of high school ♪ ♪ Stereotypes of a black male misunderstood ♪ ♪ And it's still all good, huh ♪ ♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ And if you don't know now you know, nigga ♪
- Everyone!
- I can't hear you!
- Everyone!
- A little louder! ♪ And if you don't know now you know ♪
<i>So how's Philly?</i>
I had females crying for me like I was Michael Jackson and shit.
Well, tell them hos to beat it.
You had a... a visitor, by the way.
Your ex came over.
Jan?
Yeah.
What the hell does she want?
For you to spend time with your daughter.
I do spend time with my daughter, whenever I can.
I'm breaking Jan off every motherfucking week with cash.
- Giving money ain't the same thing.
- Whose side are you on?
- You have to ask?
- My bad.
So check it.
Mark met some chick, so I may let them use my suite tonight, so don't bother calling.
You're letting Mark use your room?
Yeah, it ain't no thing.
It sounds stupid, that's all.
That's 'cause it is stupid.
But it's for my man, you know?
- All right. I love you.
- I love you, too, Fay.
Hello? Hi. Could you watch Chyna for me?
Yes?
Housekeeping.
No, thank you.
Sorry, ma'am.
I can't hear you through the door.
I said, no, thank you
- Shit!
- What the fuck?
- Fay, wait. Fay.
- What the fuck?
Fay, wait! Don't!
- Fucking bitch!
- Hey, FEW, wait. Fay-Fay.
Shit! Fay! I wasn't even fucking her.
Well, you should have been. ♪ Now I remember ♪ ♪ The way ♪ ♪ You used to love me ♪ ♪ Baby, I remember the way ♪ ♪ I remember the days ♪ ♪ Ohh-oh ♪ ♪ You used to love me ♪ ♪ I gave you all my precious love ♪ ♪ And anything you wanted ♪ ♪ From me ♪ ♪ You didn't hear me calling out ♪ ♪ Calling for your warm affection ♪ ♪ After all this time ♪ ♪ You can't deny ♪ ♪ What I'm feeling, ohh-oh-ohh ♪ ♪ Ohh-ohh ♪ ♪ And I stood right by ♪ ♪ Your side ♪ ♪ Went through all the hurt and pain ♪ ♪ Then you turned and walked away ♪ ♪ I remember ♪ ♪ I remember ♪ ♪ You used to love me, baby ♪ ♪ I remember ♪ ♪ Ohh-oh-ohh ♪ ♪ The days you used to love me ♪ ♪ Ohh-oh-ohh, remember ♪
I don't know what else to do but be real with you. I fucked up.
I miss being home with you and Chyna.
I got caught up in some bullshit.
I'll never fuck up again, Fay-Fay.
Fay.
I don't know what else to say.
I just want to come home.
Ladies and gentlemen Stupid.
Nobody smile like you, Fay-Fay.
Forgive me, Fay-Fay?
Hmm?
Oh, shit!
See what you did?
I love you, Fay-Fay.
I love you too.
Things got cool with me and Faith, so I took Junior M.A.F.I.A. on the road.
But the smoother shit got with me and Fay, the bumpier they got with me and Kim.
Notorious B.I.G. presents...
Junior M.A.F.I.A. featuring Lil' Kim! ♪ Niggas, better grab a seat ♪ ♪ Grab hold your dick
'cause this bitch get deep ♪ ♪ Deeper than the pussy of a bitch six feet ♪ ♪ Stiff dicks feel sweet in this little petite ♪ ♪ Young bitch from the street guaranteed to stay down ♪ ♪ Used to bring work out of town on Greyhound ♪ ♪ Now I'm Billboard bound
Niggas, press to hit it ♪ ♪ Play me like a chicken
Thinking I'm pressed to get it ♪ ♪ Rather do the killin' in the stick-up jooks ♪ ♪ Rather count a million while you eat my pussy ♪ ♪ Push me to the limit
Get my feelings in it ♪ ♪ Get me open while I'm comin' down your throat ♪ ♪ You wanna be my main squeeze, nigga, don'tcha ♪ ♪ You wanna lick between my knees, nigga ♪ ♪ Don'tcha wanna see me whipping your three down the ave ♪ ♪ Blow up spots on bitches because I'm mad ♪ ♪ Break up affairs lick shots in the air ♪ ♪ You get vexed and start swinging everywhere ♪ ♪ Me shifty
Now you want to pistol-whip me ♪ ♪ Pull out your nine while I cock on mine ♪ ♪ Know what, nigga
I ain't got time for this ♪ ♪ So what, nigga
I'm not trying to hear that shit ♪ ♪ Now, you want to buy me diamonds and Armani suits ♪ ♪ Adrienne Vittadini and Chanel nine boots ♪ ♪ Things to make up for all the games and the lies ♪ ♪ Hallmark cards saying, "I apologize" ♪ ♪ Is you wit' me
How could you ever deceive me ♪ ♪ The payback's a bitch
Motherfucker, believe me ♪ ♪ Naw, I ain't gay
This ain't no lesbo flow ♪ ♪ Just a little somethin' to let you motherfuckers know ♪ ♪ Get money, fuck bitches ♪ ♪ Get money
Get money, fuck bitches ♪
That's that Biggie joint, baby.
"One More Chance" officially got the number-one slot on the chart this week.
Biggie!
I love you. ♪ We push the hottest V's
Peel fast through the city ♪ ♪ Play Monopoly with real cash ♪ ♪ Me and Biggie and the models be shakin' they saditty ass ♪ ♪ And parotta be somethin' you cats got to see ♪ ♪ And the watches be all types and shapes of stones ♪ ♪ Bein' broke is childish and I'm quite grown ♪ ♪ Run up in that club with the ice on me and Paisan ♪ ♪ Scope the spot out see somethin' nice and I'm gone ♪ ♪ You cats is home screamin' the fight's on ♪ ♪ I'm in the 1,500 seats watchin' Tyson ♪ ♪ Same night, same fight but one of us cats ain't playin' right I'll let you tell it ♪ ♪ People, place yourselves in the shoes of two felons ♪ ♪ And tell me you won't ball every chance you get and any chance you hit ♪ ♪ We live for the moment
Makes sense, don't it ♪ ♪ Now make dollars Cats pop bottles bone chicks that favor Idalis ♪ ♪ And rack up frequent flier mileage ♪ ♪ Gotta let it show
I love the dough ♪ ♪ Hey, I love the dough more than you know ♪ ♪ Gotta let it show
I love the dough ♪
- There he is.
- What's up, brother?
What's up? Looking good, baby.
How you doing? How's everything?
Everything good.
Good to see you.
- Here, you break.
- Oh, you want some of this?
Yo, Pac, can I get your autograph?
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
This shit ever trip you out?
What? People wanting your autograph.
They actin' like it's 14 karats.
I had a kid come to me the other day, tell me I was his hero.
But, I'm like, nah. Malcolm X should be your hero. Dr. King.
That was Pac.
A revolutionary one minute, a thug-life motherfucker the next.
Ask 10 people who Pac is and you get 10 different answers.
But he was all that and more, and sometimes he was just someone who liked to fuck with you.
- Give me your money. Take your little lunch money.
- Huh!
But like Pac told me, the best time would be when I was coming up.
Because once you on top, you can only go down.
What's up, Dre?
Pac was right. That night at Quad Studios changed everything.
Hey, yo! What's up, Pac?
- Hey! What up, Cease?
- You coming up?
- Yeah, I got a gig on the 12th floor.
- All right. I'm gonna go tell Big.
Yeah!
Hey, yo, Big.
I just saw your boy Pac downstairs.
Yeah?
Go get him.
All right.
You know Big and them on the 10th floor. They in a session. Yeah? How their session going?
Come on, man.
You know he doing his thing.
Just make sure they're working.
We gotta make sure this paper's flowing.
Yo, I hope Pac got some of that good weed, man.
They say, "Puff, puff, pass." But if it's that good, I ain't passing nothing.
- Yo, get those motherfuckers back in the elevator!
- Get the fuck back in the elevator, man!
Yo, Big, man! Pac is downstairs getting rolled on, man! They had the gun in my face!
Don't move. Stay here. They're still down there. Let me come with you, man!
Fuck! Press 12.
Press 12!
Oh, fuck!
Motherfucker jacked me in the lobby, man!
Pac!
Stop right there!
Hold on. Shut the fuck up and keep your hands in the air!
Yo, somebody call the ambulance.
Yo, Pac. What happened, Pac?
Tupac didn't know who the fuck to trust.
Get away from me.
Which one of y'all set me up?
I'm right here, motherfucker!
What? Huh? Fuck!
As far as he was concerned
Oh, shit.
Everyone near was responsible,
Oh, shit. Fuck y'all, man!
Including me.
In the aftermath of the Tupac Shakur shooting at Quad Studios... the rapper-actor named record producer Sean "Puffy" Combs
What? No!
This is full of shit.
Yo, Big, come on, man. You don't need to be watching this right now.
I warned him about those guys.
Naming music producer Sean "Puffy" Combs and the rapper Christopher Wallace...
Now he's blaming me? How the fuck could he say I'd do some shit like that?
Yeah, they're full of it, man. They wouldn't even let me see him in the hospital.
Fuck it!
I'm gonna call him.
He know who shot him.
Yo, Big, hold up.
Yo, Big, hold up.
Big!
Yo, Big, ho Big, hold up.
Hey, Big, hold up, man.
They just found your man guilty on that sex abuse.
He ain't thinking clearly right now.
You know what I'm saying?
Just give him some time. Just give him some time, let this cool down.
Shit doesn't make any sense.
At the Superior Court where he faced a jury... in the sex-abuse trial brought against him last year.
He was acquitted of six counts in the indictment and found guilty of three others.
He now faces sentencing and probable jail time.
Hey, yo, check this out.
Let me tell y'all who the winner is.
And the winner is...
Above the backboards and the rims.
You know what I'm saying?
Pac went to jail on the sex-abuse charge.
We thought all the bullshit would die down, but Suge Knight, the owner of Death
Row Records, had something else in mind.
I'd like to tell Tupac to keep his guards up. We riding with him.
And one other thing I'd like to say.
Any artists out there that want to be artists and want to stay a star... and don't... don't have to worry about the executive producer... all up in the videos, all on the records, dancin', come to Death Row!
- Hell, yeah! West Side, boys!
- Yo, come on, man.
Big, what is the East Coast-West Coast rivalry?
Are you afraid for your life?
- Any further comments on Death Row?
- Biggie, what did Puff Daddy do?
Did you shoot Tupac?
What are you going to do now that Pac's getting out of jail?
Go, go!
Get us the fuck out of here!
Pac and his people have been saying that "Who
Shot Ya?" the joint Biggie came out with, is trying to dis Pac about the shooting at Quad Studios.
But Biggie's camp is saying he wrote that song before the shooting ever happened.
And he stopped playing that song now.
Yeah, he stopped playing the song.
And now Pac is coming out with this new song getting at Biggie. The whole thing is getting out of control.
The fans are choosing sides, the labels are choosing sides.
What's up?
What? You're just gonna sit there looking stupid?
- Yo, your boy's been wilding out, man.
- Who?
Pac. He's been on a mission ever since Suge bailed him out of jail. ♪ First off, fuck your bitch and the clique you claim ♪ ♪ West Side when we ride come equipped with game ♪ ♪ You claim to be a playa but I fucked your wife ♪ ♪ We bust on Bad Boy's niggas
Fuck for life ♪ ♪ Plus, Puffy tryin' to see me weak ♪
That's some dumb shit. I ain't sweating it. ♪ We keep on coming while we running for your jewels ♪ ♪ Steady gunning
Keep on busting at them fools
You know the rules ♪ ♪ Little Caesar, go ask your homey how I'll leave you ♪ ♪ Cut your young ass up leave you in pieces
Now be deceased ♪ ♪ Lil' Kim, don't fuck around with real G's
Quick to snatch yo ugly ass off the street ♪
- Where you get this from?
- Got it from the store, man.
It's all over the place. ♪ So let the West Side ride tonight ♪
Been singing since I was in the choir as a little girl.
Go see what that is.
- Um, I'm sorry. I don't know what's going on.
- Where the fuck is Faith?
Big, I'm doing an interview.
When were you going to tell me?
I gotta find out about it like this?
You fucked that motherfucker? Huh?
Come the fuck here.
Get the fuck over here.
Let me talk to you.
You fucked that motherfucker?
Huh?
You want to fuck with niggas? You want to fuck with niggas? Huh? Get out of here!
Yo, Big, go downstairs, man. You know somebody called security by now!
Big, get the hell out!
Get the hell out, man!
- What were you thinkin'?
- I wasn't fuckin' thinking.
I just fucking snapped, all right?
I just wanted to get the truth.
Yo, man, truth is your Pac, he trying to bring you down to the gutter with him, and you playing right into his hands, Big.
I mean, well, we can squabble, but, yo, I just got finished signing with Clive for $42 million.
And you getting $5 million, Big.
Don't mess that up.
Fay-Fay? Come on, FEW, open the door. I want to talk to you.
Come on, open the door.
Please.
Fay.
Can you open the door?
Fay!
What's going on?
Fuck you!
I don't even know who the fuck you are anymore.
Can you listen for a minute?
Fay, just listen to me for a minute.
It's over.
I'm sorry about bugging the fuck out.
I'm sorry about a lot of things.
Why couldn't you just be a man and ask me?
Okay, I'm asking.
What happened with you and Pac?
I saw him at the House of Blues.
We took that picture, and that's all it was supposed to be.
And that's all there was.
End of story.
Okay. Maybe now you have an idea what it feels like to be cheated on.
I'm not bragging, Fay, but I could have had 10 bitches a day if I wanted.
So go have 10, 20.
I don't give a fuck.
I ain't mean that.
No, Chris.
I'm not laughing.
Not anymore.
Come on, Fay.
Damn!
What?
This Notorious?
Yeah. You gonna be wearing a toe tag, nigga.
Who this?
West Coast, motherfucker.
- What size are these?
- Those are 14s like you asked.
These ain't no fucking 14s.
Fucking 12s.
These ain't no fucking 14s.
All right, everybody out.
Cease, go get the car!
Everybody out!
All these fucking problems.
Out, people. Come on. Come on.
Hey, Mark, y'all playing around.
You ain't doing your job! Y'all sent over the wrong size shoes!
Y'all sent the wrong size shoes!
Now he ain't going on!
I ain't got time for no temper tantrum!
Look, you need to chill, Puff.
He's got a lot on his mind right now.
What? He stressed out about them
Death Row niggas in the audience?
Big ain't worried about it.
It ain't that, man. Fay's pregnant.
How'd that knucklehead get her pregnant? I thought they was broke up.
All this soap opera drama.
Yo, Big!
I'm not going on. Big, come on, man. Don't do this to me.
Don't do this to yourself! I've done just about every fucking thing you have ever asked of me.
All I want in return is some motherfucking shoes that fit.
Yo, man, yo, man.
There you go dancing again.
Yeah.
- Maybe I take my shoes too seriously.
- Size 14, I would take them seriously.
I know lately that it ain't been easy.
Pac is talking about us.
The media is doing whatever they can to keep this East Coast-West Coast thing going on.
I wanna be the last cat still standing.
I'm hoping that you want the same thing.
Yo, look, I just got these from Big Sexy.
They ain't fly or nothin', but they gonna have to work, baby.
I used to sling rock for nice kicks.
Now look at me.
This your idea of us changing the world?
We can't change the world unless we change ourselves.
Yo, Big. What now, huh, motherfucker?
Huh? West Side, motherfucker!
Now you on the best side! What you gonna do now, bitch? Huh? Huh, motherfucker?
- Let me talk to you, man.
- Your bitch ass set me up!
What you gotta say now, motherfucker?
That's why I fucked your wife!
Oh! He got the strap!
He got the strap!
- You set me up, motherfucker!
- He got the strap.
Let's go!
- What the fuck? Come on, man! West Side, bitch!
- Catch you on the rebound, big boy.
Me and Pac should have said,
"Fuck that bullshit.
Let's go somewhere and talk this shit out."
But the fact is, we were both way beyond that now.
The media went crazy.
It had nothing to do with hip-hop but everything to do with selling papers and magazines.
- If it ain't New York, it ain't shit.
- West Side, Compton in the house!
- We got Biggie. We got everybody.
- We got Pac. We got Dre.
- Play our shit on the East Coast.
- None of that shit get played in the clubs in the Bronx.
We created all this rap shit anyway.
East Coast.
West Side! They might think they started the game, but we elevated that motherfucker.
Tupac knows what he's talking about. He talks about the hood.
He talks about what's actually going on on the streets.
I know Big set him up. That's why my man Pac came back with "Hit 'Em Up."
That's some bullshit.
Set him up?
Biggie wrote "Who Shot Ya?" because he got something to do with Pac.
Big wrote "Who Shot Ya?" months before that shit went down with Pac.
How is Pac gonna really think that Biggie would set him up like that?
- Fuck West Coast. Man, they can eat a motherfucking dick.
- I don't give a fuck if you think it's gangsta.
- Fuck Compton, man.
- Fuck the East Coast.
- Fuck the West Coast.
That's what the fuck I think about the motherfucking East motherfucking Coast. ♪ Just give me the loot
Give me the loot ♪ ♪ Money, money, money ♪ ♪ Give me the loot give me the loot ♪ ♪ Money, money, money ♪ ♪ Give me the loot, give me the loot ♪ ♪ I'm a bad, bad man ♪ ♪ My man Inf left a Tec and a nine at my crib ♪ ♪ Turned himself in, he had to do a bid
A one-to-three
He be home the end of '93 ♪ ♪ I'm trying to get this paper, G
You with me ♪ ♪ Motherfucking right
My pocket's looking kind of tight ♪ ♪ And I'm stressed
Yo, Biggie, let me get the vest ♪ ♪ No need for that
Just grab the fucking gat ♪ ♪ The first pocket that's fat let's take it to his back ♪ ♪ Word is bond
Yo, no fronting, yo, don't fake no moves ♪ ♪ Treat it like boxing
Stick and move, stick and move ♪ ♪ Nigga, you ain't got to explain shit ♪ ♪ I've been robbing motherfuckers since the slave ships ♪ ♪ With the same clip and the same 4-5 ♪
Yo, enough. Cut that.
Shut that shit down!
- Yo, put that joint on.
- Big, what you doing?
Sometimes you gotta rise above it.
Sometimes you gotta step on in.
- Don't sing that song, man.
- I got to.
Yo, check it out. This industry will turn your best friends into your worst enemies.
Pac warned me, but I didn't believe him.
This song was made months ago.
He probably won't believe me.
Maybe nobody will.
But frankly, I don't give a fuck.
Drop that joint, DJ Enuff. ♪ Who shot ya ♪ ♪ Separate the weak from the obsolete
Hard to creep these Brooklyn streets ♪ ♪ It's on, nigga
Fuck all that bickering beef ♪ ♪ I can hear sweat trickling down your cheek ♪ ♪ Your heartbeat sounds like Sasquatch feet ♪ ♪ Thundering shaking the concrete ♪ ♪ Finish this stuff when I foil the plot ♪ ♪ Neighbors called the cops when they heard mad shots ♪ ♪ Rolling in the drop three in the corner ♪ ♪ Slaughter, electrical tape around your daughter ♪ ♪ Old school, new school need to learn, though ♪ ♪ I burn, baby, burn like "Disco Inferno" ♪ ♪ Burn slow like blunts with yayo ♪ ♪ Peel more skins than Idaho potato ♪ ♪ Niggas know the lyrical molesting is taking place ♪ ♪ Fucking with B.I.G., it ain't safe ♪ ♪ I make your skin chafe
Rough to the masses ♪ ♪ Bumps and bruises
Cuffs and Land Cruisers ♪ ♪ Big Poppa smash fools, hash fools ♪ ♪ Niggas mad because they know that cash rules everything around me ♪ ♪ Two Glock nines
Any motherfucker whispering about mines ♪ ♪ And I'm Crooklyn's finest ♪ ♪ You rewind this, Bad Boy's behind this ♪ ♪ As we proceed to give you what you need ♪ ♪ East Coast ♪ ♪ Bad Boy ♪ ♪ I seen the light excite all the freaks ♪ ♪ Stack mad bread
Mad love with my peeps ♪ ♪ Niggas wanna creep got to watch my back ♪ ♪ Think the cognac and indo sack make me slack ♪ ♪ I switches all that cock-sucker G's up ♪ ♪ One false move get Swiss-cheesed up ♪ ♪ Clip to tec respect, I demand it ♪ ♪ Slip and break the 11th commandment ♪ ♪ Thou shalt not fuck with North C Poppa ♪ ♪ Feel a thousand deaths
Then I drop ya ♪ ♪ I feel for you like Chaka Khan
I'm the don ♪ ♪ Pussy when I want
Rolex on the arm ♪ ♪ You'll die slow but calm ♪
Headline news at the top of the hour.
Right now we've got some breaking news for you out of Las Vegas.
An apparent drive-by shooting targeting rapper-actor Tupac Shakur.
- Hey, yo, Big, come in here, man!
- At the time of the shooting
What the hell you hollering about?
Shakur was accompanied by his producer, Suge Knight.
Police are not yet indicating any suspects.
However, eyewitnesses reported hearing multiple gunshots.
Shakur was airlifted to the Las Vegas University
Medical Center with four gunshot wounds... and is reported to be in critical condition.
What the fuck?
I pray all this East Coast-West Coast mess is over now.
I saw his mother on TV.
She's a strong woman.
But no parent should have to bury their child.
I just always figured we had time to straighten things out.
You don't think this had anything to do with your argument?
No.
I don't.
Well, nobody is invincible, Son.
That's why we have to make everything we do now count.
I'm chilling with my man Pac, who schooled me to the game and shit. Know what I'm sayin'?
Now we about to wreak havoc on you motherfuckers, man. Know what I'm sayin'?
I don't know when the hell they'll fix your truck, but I'll get us home before we're seen in this piece of shit.
I don't care, Cease.
Just drive.
Watch out!
In that one moment,
I had that thought again.
Dying would be better than dealing with this shit.
I was leaving, and I was sitting in a hotel, and a voice said,
"Do you see any niggers?"
And I said, "No."
And it said, "You know why?
'Cause there aren't any."
Yeah, I been here three weeks,
I haven't even said it.
I ain't gonna never call another black man nigger.
Look at you. Your mama should have never let you out the house.
Oh, shit.
I can't believe it.
Oh, bro, what's going on?
- When did you get out?
- Yesterday.
- You picked up some weight.
- Man, look who's talking.
Damn.
Wow.
Biggie motherfuckin' Smalls.
I'm proud of you, dog.
When the brothers in the pen found out you was my boy, I got mad love.
Yeah?
How much love did you get?
Man, fuck you, bitch.
D Roc, there's not a day that don't go by when I don't think about what you did for me.
I set some paper aside for you.
I didn't do it for no pay off.
If shit was reversed, I don't know how
I could do that bid for you like that.
Well, if shit was reversed, I don't know if
I could have been strong enough to make it.
Making it?
It ain't all it's cracked up to be.
More money, more problems.
- Beats the corner.
- Guess so.
Hey, yo.
Little D Roc was born when I was locked up.
Look at him, man.
I'm just gettin' to know him and shit.
So how's Tee-Tee doing, huh?
Okay. I guess.
I'm gonna check you out a little later on, all right?
You know, neither one of us had our fathers around to teach us how to be men.
We were just learning as we was going along.
But maybe making it ain't just about the shit you do onstage.
You a philosopher now?
Man, I think everyone that's in the pen is a philosopher.
But when you're on your back, laying on that cot... you spend a lot of time staring at the ceiling, looking for God, thinking about what's important.
Keep making it, Chris.
You gotta let me know whether it's the streets or the studio.
You got me?
You think that makes you a man?
You be a great father.
What if I don't make it?
I love you too.
We gonna be all right, just you and me.
You're too fat, black, and ugly.
I don't even know who the fuck you are anymore.
Are you a bad guy trying to be good, or a good guy trying to be bad?
And I want you to know
That these are the breaks
Break it up, break it up, break it up
Now go play.
That's my girl.
- Hello?
- Hey. What you doing?
- I'm just kicking it with my daughter.
- How's the leg?
It's all right.
- I got one more stop, and then I'm on my way.
You need anything? - That's not a good idea.
- What isn't?
- I'm just here kicking it with my daughter.
- You were the one who told me to come over.
- I'll call you later.
I'm done with this.
I'm sick of you treating me like shit.
You know what, nigga? Don't even bother calling. All right? Fuck you.
Fuck you too, bitch.
Come here, Tee-Tee.
I'm gonna teach you something
I never want you to forget.
Another rap?
No. More important than any rap song.
Look at me.
See, you're my princess.
So no matter what, for any reason, never let a man call you a bitch.
You got it?
Yes, Daddy.
You sure you got it? You better have it, you hear? Yes.
Hey, yo, isn't that Sandy?
Yo, she used to be a crackhead.
People dying for that next Biggie Smalls joint.
Tell me the reason why you're here 'cause you ready to get back in the studio.
I think I am, Puff, but there's a couple of things I wanna talk to you about.
What's on your mind, Big?
I can't talk about the same shit anymore.
A motherfucker's a work in progress.
You know what I'm sayin'?
But I ain't hustling on the streets no more.
I got two kids. Half the time
I don't even feel like the same cat.
I wanna do something different.
So if it's cool to try some new shit,
I'm ready to come back.
Yeah.
What?
The Notorious baby... What?
Uh-huh. You ready? Yeah, yeah.
Ready to run the world? Ready to take it? Ain't trippin'.
I don't see nobody. What's up? I'm walking around, don't see nobody. You know how we do it.
All right.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yo, welcome back, Biggie.
Let's get it. ♪ Wit' my counterparts on how to burn the block apart ♪ ♪ Break it down into sections
Drugs by the selection ♪ ♪ Some use pipes
Others use injections ♪ ♪ Syringe sold separately
Frank the deputy ♪ ♪ Quick to grab my Smith and Wesson like my dick was missin' ♪ ♪ To protect my position my corner, my layer ♪ ♪ While we out here say the hustler's prayer ♪ ♪ If the game shakes me or breaks me
I hope it makes me a better man ♪ ♪ Take a better stand
Put money in my mom's hand ♪ ♪ Get my daughter this college plan so she don't need no man ♪ ♪ Stay far from timid
Only make moves when ya heart's in it ♪ ♪ And live the phrase
Sky's The Limit ♪ ♪ Motherfucker
See you chumps on top ♪ ♪ Sky is the limit and you know that you keep on ♪ ♪ Just keep on pressin' on ♪
What's up?
Uh-huh.
I did it.
I'm the greatest!
Yeah. ♪ Just keep on pressin' on
Sky is the limit ♪
Uh-huh!
Yo, Big, wake up.
Wake up, baby.
We got the 7:30 flight 504.
Going to L.A.X.
Cali?
No doubt, baby. California.
Yeah.
I don't like you going out there.
I think me being in L.A. is gonna finally put an end to all of this.
Besides, I'm just promoting the album.
I'll be home soon.
Mmm.
Hey, Ma. I'm proud of you.
Proud of me? For what?
Fighting cancer, then getting your master's, sticking with it, even with everything you've been through.
Thank you.
I want you to be careful,
Chrissy-poo.
I hate it when you call me that.
I forgot.
You're all grown-up now.
West Coast rappers were still scared to come to the East Coast, and East Coast rappers were scared to come out west, but it was time to put an end to all this shit.
So I went to Cali to promote my album.
Y'all see how sexy I looked last night at the Soul Train Awards?
- Yeah. We saw you.
- I gotta stay out here and promote the album.
You think T'yanna could come out?
Maybe my moms could bring her?
Um
Okay.
I wouldn't have a problem with that.
Thanks, man.
These shits are hot!
I'm gonna holler at you later, all right?
Yeah, man.
Oooh!
- Man, that shit look real good, man.
- My mom's gonna love this.
23rd Psalm.
This joint is bangin'.
- So we going to the party tonight or what?
- My ass too tired.
Folks wanna see you.
- Yeah.
- It's hot as shit here in Cali.
- You tell that fat motherfucker he's not gonna make it out of L.A. alive.
- Fuck you, motherfucker. We ain't hidin'!
- Another one?
- Yeah, man.
Fuck it.
We in Cali, right?
- Man, we going out tonight.
- All right, man, fuck it.
Hip-hop royalty from both coasts are out on the town here in L.A. tonight.
Vibe magazine is hosting a major party in honor of yesterday's Soul Train Awards, and some big names are expected to attend.
Hello?
You coming to the party? Yeah, we on our way over there right now.
- I thought you were going to London.
- I was, but I gotta stay here and promote the album.
So when you get back to New York, I want you to send C.J. out here with my moms.
Jan's letting me scoop up T'yanna, so I need my son to be here.
All right, we can work that out.
Let's talk later. ♪ Ha, sicker than your average ♪ ♪ Poppa twist cabbage off instinct
Niggas don't think shit stink ♪ ♪ Pink gators, my Detroit players ♪ ♪ Timbs for my hooligans in Brooklyn ♪ ♪ Dead right, if they head right
Biggie there ♪
1- Mary-Queen-11-Rogers. ♪ Bruise crews who do something to us ♪ ♪ Talk go through us
Girls walk to us, wanna do us, screw us ♪ ♪ Who, us
Yeah, Poppa and Puff ♪ ♪ Close like Starsky and Hutch
Stick the clutch ♪ ♪ Dare I squeeze three at your cherry M-3 ♪ ♪ Bang every M.C. easily, easily ♪ ♪ Recently niggas fronting ain't saying nothing ♪ ♪ So I just speak my piece keep my peace ♪ ♪ Cubans with the Jesus piece with my peeps ♪
Yo, we in L.A.! We in L.A.!
Yo, you feel the love we getting up here?
I just wanna give it all back.
Yeah, Puff. I told you they gonna feel this record, baby.
Sound like you just did, and we ain't even done yet.
Let's change the world, Big.
Can't change the world unless we change ourselves.
I think all my life
I was trying to become a man, but for some reason on this night
I didn't have to try anymore.
My second album was about to drop, and it felt like God was giving me a clean slate all over again.
Unfortunately, we being shut down.
We done burn it up in here tonight.
Fire marshal's in the house and we got to go.
Please exit to the far left.
We should just chill.
Let them clear out first, all right?
You're the man.
Everybody love you right now, son.
Yo, look.
We got shit to do in the morning.
Hotel, baby. All right? All right.
What's up?
I just wanted to say sorry and shit.
When I get back to New York, why don't we just sit down and figure out what the fuck we doing?
No more drama.
We could do that.
You all right?
I'm good.
Guess what.
- I bought my own truck.
- Oh, shit. For real?
- Black Lex.
- You owe me a ride.
All over Brooklyn.
- It's a date.
- I got you.
- Later, Mookie.
- Later.
- Let's hit it.
- Whoa, whoa, let's roll. Let's roll, y'all.
We out. Car's over there. Let's go.
See y'all at the hotel! ♪ I'm going, going back to, back to Cali, Cali ♪
We back, baby, we back! We back on top, baby! No doubt. We did it.
Look at that! What's up, ma? What's up?
Oh, you're looking fine!
Going to the after party?
- Wherever you're headed, ma. You feel me?
- Where y'all going?
Let's go to the show!
Shit! Where y'all goin'?
You okay?
You okay? Get up!
Yo, what's up? What's up?
Let's get out of here, man!
Let's get to a hospital!
Get in! Go! Drive!
Come on, get us to the hospital!
Just shut up, man! Drive! Drive! ♪ Now the day is over ♪ ♪ Night is drawing nigh ♪ ♪ Shadows of the evening ♪ ♪ Steal across the sky ♪ ♪ Now the darkness gathers ♪ ♪ Stars begin to peek ♪ ♪ Sun and birds and flowers ♪ ♪ They are sound asleep ♪
Ms. Wallace, if there's anything anything that you need, I
I wanna take my son home just one last time.
You need some help, Ms. Wallace?
Oh, no, sweetheart. You just had a baby. You sit right here and relax.
- Can I hold my grandson now?
- One minute, Ma.
All right.
Thanks for bringing him.
You're welcome.
This little nigga like a light-skinned you.
Can't this motherfucker be in the world one week before being called a nigga?
As if "motherfucker" is really that much better.
- Both of y'all need to watch your language around my grandchildren.
- I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
- Come on, it's time to eat.
I'll take the baby so you can eat.
Uh! Say grace.
Dear God.
Thank you.
- That's it?
- Yeah.
I thought it was perfect.
We loved him too!
Biggie Smalls!
My son, Christopher Wallace, told stories.
Some of them were funny, some of them were sad, some of them were violent, but people listened.
I'm saddened that his life was cut down at the age of 24, but I find solace in knowing that he became a man... and he was ready to live.
As I looked out at all those faces... something happened.
Someone in the crowd turned on their radio... and I could hear my son's voice. ♪ Hah, sicker than your average Poppa ♪ ♪ Twist cabbage off instinct
Niggas don't think shit stink ♪ ♪ Pink gators, my Detroit players ♪ ♪ Timbs for my hooligans in Brooklyn ♪ ♪ Dead right, if they head right
Biggie there every night ♪ ♪ Poppa been smooth since days of Underoos ♪ ♪ Never lose, never choose to, bruise crews who do something to us, talk go through us ♪ ♪ Girls walk to us, wanna do us, screw us
Who, us ♪ ♪ Yeah, Poppa and Puff
Close like Starsky and Hutch ♪ ♪ Stick the clutch
Dare I squeeze three at your cherry M-3 ♪ ♪ Bang every M.C. easily, easily ♪
Take that! Ha-ha-ha! ♪ Recently niggas fronting ain't saying nothing ♪ ♪ So I just speak my piece keep my peace ♪ ♪ Cubans with the Jesus piece with my peeps ♪ ♪ Packing, asking who want it, you got it
Nigga, flaunt it ♪ ♪ That Brooklyn bullshit we on it ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie, can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ I put hos in N.Y. onto DKNY ♪ ♪ Miami, D.C. prefer Versace ♪
That's right. ♪ All Philly hos go with Moschino ♪ ♪ Every cutie wit' a booty bought a Coogi ♪ ♪ Now who's the real dookie meaning who's really the shit ♪ ♪ Them niggas ride dicks
Frank White push the sticks ♪ ♪ On the Lexus LX four and a half ♪ ♪ Bulletproof glass tints if I want some ass ♪ ♪ Gonna blast squeeze first ask questions last ♪ ♪ That's how most of these so-called gangsters pass ♪ ♪ At last, a nigga rappin' 'bout blunts and broads, tits and bras ♪ ♪ Ménage à trois sex in expensive cars ♪ ♪ I still leave you on the pavement
Condo paid for, no car payment ♪ ♪ At my arraignment note for the plaintiff ♪ ♪ Your daughter's tied up in a Brooklyn basement ♪ ♪ Face it, not guilty
That's how I stay filthy ♪ ♪ Richer than Richie till you niggas come and get me ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie, can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ I can fill ya wit' real millionaire shit ♪ ♪ Escargot, my car go 160 swiftly
Wreck it buy a new one ♪ ♪ Your crew run run run your crew run run ♪ ♪ I know you sick of this name brand nigga wit' flows ♪ ♪ Girls say he's sweet like licorice ♪ ♪ So get with this nigga
It's easy ♪ ♪ Girlfriend, here's a pen call me 'round 10:00 ♪ ♪ Come through
Have sex on rugs that's Persian ♪ ♪ Come up to your job hit you while you working, for certain ♪ ♪ Poppa freakin', not speakin'
Leave that ass leakin' ♪ ♪ Like rapper demo Tell them hos, take they clothes off slowly ♪ ♪ Hit em wit' the force like Obi dick black like Toby ♪ ♪ Watch me roam like Romey
Lucky they don't owe me ♪ ♪ Where the safe Show me, homey Say what? Homey. ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie, can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie, can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪ ♪ I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid ♪ ♪ Biggie, Biggie, Biggie can't you see ♪ ♪ Sometimes your words just hypnotize me ♪ ♪ And I just love your flashy ways ♪
Uh-huh.
I ain't even good with writin'.
I don't even write shit.
I just felt...
I had to write this letter to Big. ♪ Yeah, yeah ♪
Niggas is actin' like
Letter to Big.
Oh, yo. ♪ Dear Christopher Frank White Wallace ♪ ♪ Yeah, it's your boy Kiss
I just wanted to holler ♪ ♪ In your memory
I keep a Coogi in my closet ♪ ♪ Kangol on the rack a fresh pair of Wallies ♪ ♪ You know I'm still the liquor and the weed child ♪ ♪ And still got Branson on speed dial ♪ ♪ And everybody's the king now ♪ ♪ You ain't gotta be nice
Gettin' shot is the thing now ♪ ♪ M.A.F.I.A. was doin' they best
They separated ♪ ♪ Now Roc and Gutta doin' a stretch, uh, yeah Kim is still in it to win it ♪ ♪ I seen Money L a while ago but I ain't heard from Cease in a minute ♪ ♪ People in power is queer ♪ ♪ I could go on for a year about how would it be if you were still here ♪ ♪ The game got cheaper rappers is more commercially successful now ♪ ♪ But the heart's a lot weaker ♪ ♪ You know me
Still got the flow that'll pop speakers ♪ ♪ First option on offense the top feature ♪ ♪ It's easy, Big
All you need is a Pro Tools set ♪ ♪ And I ain't touch the paper that I was supposed to yet ♪ ♪ Everybody that's somebody show respect ♪ ♪ Only a matter of time before they notice that ♪ ♪ I'm an impeccable lyricist, yeah ♪ ♪ And with the right mechanics
I could take over, be clear of this ♪ ♪ They well aware of Kiss the light of the city ♪ ♪ And I ain't on the label no more but I'm tighter with Diddy ♪ ♪ I got my own plan
Handle mine like a grown man ♪ ♪ Long as I know I'm nice fuck it, I'm my own fan ♪ ♪ Remixed the joints you had ♪ ♪ But they could never ever duplicate your swag, never ♪ ♪ Meanwhile I'm-a keep it so on my lil' plans ♪ ♪ And you might bump into a few of my lil' mans ♪ ♪ Up there steppin' with God ♪ ♪ Down here Mister C. in B.K. is still reppin' you hard, hard ♪ ♪ T'yanna so pretty
C.J. turned into a Lil' Biggie ♪ ♪ Just a little lighter but so witty ♪ ♪ On your born day we get the highest ♪ ♪ Groovy still the best with the garments
He keep me the flyest ♪ ♪ Tonight Patrón is dead ♪ ♪ Only right that I take a bottle of Bacardi Limón to the head ♪ ♪ And before I end it
I gotta say thanks ♪ ♪ 'Cause not only was your time well-spent it was splendid, thanks ♪ ♪ Miss you, my nigga ♪ ♪ One love ♪ ♪ We tried so hard to understand ♪ ♪ We tried so hard to understand ♪ ♪ Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ We miss you
You were everything, yeah ♪ ♪ So we'll just keep ♪ ♪ Our heads to the sky ♪ ♪ Sat wit' 'em, talked wit' 'em ♪ ♪ 'Cause we know we're gonna see you ♪ ♪ In the next lifetime ♪ ♪ But it's never easy saying good-bye ♪ ♪ See you when I get there, baby ♪ ♪ Saying ♪ ♪ Good-bye ♪ ♪ So we tried so hard to understand ♪ ♪ Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ You were everything ♪ ♪ We missed you
Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ So we tried so hard to understand ♪ ♪ Why you had to go away ♪ ♪ We miss you
You were everything ♪ ♪ We miss you, ooh-ooh-ooh ♪
